

===== P├üGINA 96 =====

EXAMPLE GATHER INFORMATION
´üČ How can I hurt them?
´üČ Who's most afraid of me?
´üČ Who's most dangerous here?
´üČ What do they intend to do?
´üČ How can I get them to [X]?
´üČ Are they telling the truth?
´üČ What's really going on here?
EXAMPLE STARTING SOLDIER BELIEFS
´üČ Their hesitance to inflict violence will Harm the squad.
´üČ They rely too much on their technology.
´üČ The Squad needs a better fitness regimen and I will start with them.
´üČ WeÔÇÖve fought side by side in the past and I can trust them at my back.
EXAMPLE SOLDIER ALLIES AND RIVALS
´üČ Ibex, a disciplined warrior
´üČ Alice, a frenzied demolitionist
´üČ Elliot, a quiet NCO
´üČ Alix, a jovial medic
EXAMPLE SOLDIER STARTING BUILDS
´üČ Vanguard: Battleborn, Command +1, Maneuver +1, Prowl +1, Battle +1
´üČ Tough: Not To Be Trifled With, Battle +2, Command +1, Consort +1
´üČ Terror: Brutal, Wreck +2, Destroy +1, Battle +1
´üČ Anti-Armor: Robot Fighter, Hunt +2, Prowl +2
96


===== P├üGINA 97 =====

97


===== P├üGINA 98 =====

THE TECHNICIAN
A savvy technician and vandal.
Technology runs the world and it will all fall apart sooner or later. Will it be repaired or
replaced? Regardless of the choice someone with specialized skills will have to tackle the
challenge. Technicians have that know how. They are the ones that push the bounds of what
science can accomplish, and also keep the lights on while they are at it. Of course, any skill
that can create can be used to destroy. Just ask Oppenheimer.
How did you afford to develop your skills in the rationing of the War? Do you prefer to create
or destroy?
TECHNICIAN ACTION RATINGS
+2 Engineer, +1 Wreck
XP TRIGGER
At the end of a session take XP if you addressed a challenge with technical skill or mayhem.
TECHNICIAN SPECIALIST PILOT GEAR
´üČ Fine engineering tools [Load 1]: Expertly made tools used for fine mechanical
work.
´üČ Fine demolition tools [Load 2]: Well crafted tools for destruction and sabotage.
´üČ Air-gun, darts and syringes [Load 1]: A near silent gun that shoots darts using
compressed air. The darts can be filled with drugs, chemicals, or biological agents.
´üČ Bandolier [Load 1 per 3 uses]: A belt worn on the hip or chest that can hold bombs
or containers filled with chemicals, drugs, or biological agents. Choose an Effect
from the list below for each use.
ÔŚő Neutralize the Effects of other chemicals.
ÔŚő Permanently fuse two surfaces until parted with a neutralizer or extreme
(and damaging effort)
ÔŚő Cause an incapacitating sensation of drowning.
ÔŚő Cause blindness for a few minutes.
ÔŚő Burst into intense flame on contact with air.
ÔŚő Explode into shrapnel.
98


===== P├üGINA 99 =====

ÔŚő Take Level 2 Harm ÔÇťObsessiveÔÇŁ and +1d to your next Interface roll.
ÔŚő Cause incapacitating full body muscle cramps.
ÔŚő Create a cloud of smoke that stings the eyes and is difficult to breathe.
ÔŚő Become imbued with a mild electrical charge and a feeling of vigour.
ÔŚő Cause temporary paralysis.
ÔŚő Become calm and enter a suggestible mental state.
´üČ Gadgets [Load 1 each]: Items created during Downtime.
´üČ Your custom vehicle [Load 0]: The vehicle assigned to you suitable to your
needs. ItÔÇÖs represented by the vehicle entry on your pilot sheet.
TECHNICIAN SPECIALIST VEHICLE GEAR
´üČ Fine Modding tools [Load 1]: Excellent tools for modifying large objects on the fly.
´üČ Fine Destruction tools [Load 2]: Finely made tools for smashing buildings,
vehicles, and other large objects.
´üČ PayLoad bay [Load 1 for 3 uses]: can contain 3 special warheads containing
chemicals, incendiaries, acids, or biological agents. These can be fired by a
weapon on the vehicle designated at the time it is first used. Uses refill at the start
of a mission.
´üČ Assisted repair system [Load 1]: spend a Materiel point to make a repair check
while on mission.
´üČ Analytics suite [Load 1]: a collection of scanners useful for determining the
comPosition of solids, liquids, and gasses.
TECHNICIAN ABILITIES
´üČ Simulation: +1d to engagement rolls. You can decide what consequence you
suffer on 4-5s with Action Rolls; the GM will make it fit the narrative.
´üČ Jury Rig: Spend two Stress to reduce the Effect (but not level) of a vehicleÔÇÖs
damage until the end of the mission. If you have Doctor you can also use this on a
pilotÔÇÖs Harm. Level 4 Damage or Harm can be affected by this ability, but the
vehicle will be destroyed or the pilot killed at the end of the mission.
´üČ Researcher: When you invent or craft a creation, take +1 result level to your roll.
You begin with one special design already known.
´üČ Fortitude: You may spend your Spark to resist a consequence of fatigue,
weakness, or chemical Effects, or to push yourself when working with technical skill
99


===== P├üGINA 100 =====

or handling chemicals.
´üČ Road Master: You know how to Wreck or Destroy an area with experimental
substances and methods so it is either impassable or good terrain to infantry,
vehicles, or Apps (your choice).
´üČ Doctor: You can use Engineer with bones, blood, and organs to treat wounds or
stabilize the dying. You may study a malady or corpse. Everyone in your Squad
gets +1d to their recovery rolls.
´üČ Saboteur: When you Wreck, the work is much quieter than it should be and the
damage is hidden from casual inspection. If you use placed explosives instead of
wrecking tools the work is not any quieter but you get +1d to the action.
´üČ Custom Implant: Choose a chemical, or gadget you have already researched and
can build. That delivery system of the chemical or the gadget itself is perfectly
concealed inside of your body and has 0 Load. Spend 1 Stress to use the implant.
Changing the implant is a 4 section Long Term Project.
´üČ Veteran: Choose a special ability from another source. Can be taken up to three
times.
EXAMPLE GATHER INFORMATION
´üČ What do they intend to do?
´üČ How can I get them to [X]?
´üČ Are they telling the truth?
´üČ What can I tinker with here?
´üČ What might happen if I [X]?
´üČ How can I find [X]?
´üČ What's really going on here?
EXAMPLE STARTING TECHNICIAN BELIEFS
´üČ They show promise, so I will support their endeavours.
´üČ They are not sufficiently interested in the results I could achieve.
´üČ My data indicates they could be so much more but choose not to be.
´üČ TheyÔÇÖve insulted my methods. They arenÔÇÖt very bright.
100


===== P├üGINA 101 =====

EXAMPLE TECHNICIAN ALLIES AND RIVALS
´üČ Dee, a surly professor
´üČ Isa, a faceless spy
´üČ Taylor, a diligent monk
´üČ Martinus, a kind psychologist
EXAMPLE TECHNICIAN STARTING BUILDS
´üČ Medic: Doctor, Consort +1, Finesse +1, Study +2
´üČ Sapper: Saboteur, Prowl +2, Wreck +1, Study +1
´üČ Cyborg: Custom Implant, Struggle +1, Prowl +1, Hunt +1, Survey +1
´üČ Gearhead: Researcher, Manipulate +1, Maneuver +1, Interface +2
101


===== P├üGINA 102 =====

PLAYERSÔÇÖ PRINCIPLES
YouÔÇÖve just read a lot of rules that explain the mechanics of being a pilot. This section
provides principles to embrace that will guide you in how to use those rules. To get the most
out of being a Beam Saber pilot follow these principles.
PROTECT YOUR COMRADES
The subject matter of Beam Saber can be both dark and heavy at times. The themes
surrounding war, and the relationships that develop because of them, are very intense. Even
the most intentionally lighthearted Cut Loose scene can become affecting as the pilots
stumble into, or around, the topic of the last mission.
ItÔÇÖs ok that what is happening in game is influencing the mood of the people at the
table. However, it is up to you, and everyone else, to make sure that it doesnÔÇÖt Harm any of
the players (including the GM). You need to work to make sure that Lines and Veils (see
page ??) are maintained. If you think one is being breached, or suspect a player is
uncomfortable, take a moment to check in with everyone. Make sure that what is happening
in character is alright. An important reason to ask is that feeling strong emotions in play can
be enjoyable (just look at horror movies), but it isnÔÇÖt always clear when they become
Harmful.
If something is causing Harm to a player, the table has many options. Cut out the
detail causing Harm by saying that it never happened. Back away from the topic by dropping
the subject and talking about something else. Pause and discuss what just happened, but
keep in mind that no one is owed an explanation by the diStressed player. Quietly skip
ahead if everyone is comfortable with the event happening but not with depicting it. Use any
combination of these to protect yourself and each other.
EMBRACE THE PILOT'S LIFE
A pilotÔÇÖs life is not easy. In the best circumstances, they are given difficult tasks with
insufficient support, and lives they donÔÇÖt know about are at stake with every mission. Even
when things go well they are rewarded with more challenges and not enough supplies, and
now have the ire of those theyÔÇÖve wronged in the course of duty. Their Quirks will run out,
Stress will build up, entanglements will provide unpleasant surprises, and all this will happen
regardless of how competent the pilots are. The War is wildly unfair.
Yet they persist because someone has to hold the line. We will watch as terrible
things happen to them, their loved ones, and their plans. In doing so we must remember that
they are not us. We can and should be emotionally invested in what happens to the them
102


===== P├üGINA 103 =====

because they are admirable for their efforts, no matter how doomed, but their failures do not
reflect on the players. So itÔÇÖs fine if they falter, fail, and fall because the mechanics ensure
that those are temporary unless we as players want them to be permanent. Besides, they
might succeed and wouldnÔÇÖt it be glorious to witness that moment?
GO INTO DANGER, FALL IN LOVE WITH TROUBLE
You will never be completely safe. YouÔÇÖre a pilot surrounded by massive war machines
(some of which are trying to kill you) in a war that predates your birth and wonÔÇÖt conclude in
your lifetime. You donÔÇÖt have the option to be risk averse since youÔÇÖve got the tough missions
due to the fact that youÔÇÖre expendable, skilled, passionate, or all of the above. ItÔÇÖll take big
plans and big actions to fulfill the big dream of a happy ending.
Embrace risky ideas. Go for what sounds fun, exciting, and probably dangerous. The
rules help make impossible challenges manageable, and there will always be possible
consequences like ÔÇťthere could be collateral damage.ÔÇŁ Dare to be interesting, donÔÇÖt fear peril.
Trying to avoid every little danger wonÔÇÖt build up the pilotsÔÇÖ Stress, itÔÇÖll build up the playersÔÇÖ!
Consequences arenÔÇÖt failures. Remember that a result of 4-6 means that you succeed at
what you were trying to do. There will likely be unintended consequences, but you will have
succeeded nonetheless!
When consequences do befall you donÔÇÖt hate them. Exciting things happen when
they appear. Someone gets Harm, a vehicle takes Damage, new challenges arrive, and
much more! All of these will give you opportunities to take exciting actions to achieve your
dreams. Telling stories about gripping moments is why you are playing this game; donÔÇÖt back
away from them.
USE ACTIONS HONORABLY
Players get to choose the action that they will roll when attempting to overcome an obstacle,
but that comes with the duty of being honest in your choice. Choose the action that best
suits what you are doing, not just the action you have the most points in. If you are
demolishing a building with your vehicle be honest and roll Destroy or maybe Battle. DonÔÇÖt
try to claim you can use Manipulate or Scan because youÔÇÖre targeting the main support
columns. Of course you might use Scan for a setup action by finding where the Load bearing
structures are for increased Effect or improved Position on the follow up action.
TAKE RESPONSIBILITY
Everyone playing is responsible for the narrative that comes from the game. This includes
tone, themes, style, descriptions, and much more. You participate in both a tactical role and,
103


===== P├üGINA 104 =====

just as importantly, an expressive one. You do this by having your pilot embody what you
want to see in the game. If you want The War to be deadly, take serious Harm when itÔÇÖs
offered. If you want political complexity, seek out and implement schemes of your own. If you
want emotionally flawed characters, lean into that with your own. Be the story you want to
see.
USE YOUR STRESS AND QUIRKS
The War is harsh on everyone and especially on the pilots who carry the hopes of their
Faction, not to mention their own dreams. Your pilotÔÇÖs Stress and vehicleÔÇÖs Quirks are a
resource that you have to break through the challenges that you face. By pushing yourself
and getting an assist from a squadmate you can get at least 2 dice in any action, and if you
donÔÇÖt get a 6 you can negate any consequence with a resist roll. If you donÔÇÖt spend your
resources the challenges may seem insurmountable.
ADVOCATE FOR THE SCENES YOU WANT
There will be times where youÔÇÖll imagine an interesting scene that you think would benefit the
narrative. Sometimes theyÔÇÖll happen on their own as the pieces fall into place, but a far more
reliable way to have those scenes happen is for you to advocate for them. Talk to the GM
about setting up scenes with the NPCs you want to role play with. Talk to the other players
about having your pilots encounter each other or working together. Talk to the whole group
about setting up missions centred on the stories you want to pursue. Remember to return
the favor.
DON'T TALK YOURSELF OUT OF FUN
When youÔÇÖre Planning the Mission, or just deciding what to do next, do what seems like it will
be the most fun. Your pilot might be invested in coming up with the ÔÇťbestÔÇŁ plan but remember
that you are here to have fun. Your precious time is being spent with this game because you
want to see dramatic confrontations between vehicle pilots in The War. Embody those
moments, hold steady, and engage!
BUILD YOUR CHARACTER THROUGH PLAY
When you start your pilotÔÇÖs first mission theyÔÇÖll be a handful of details. A History, Tragedy,
Opening, Rival, Ally, and Beliefs about the other pilots. Those say who the pilot was, not who
they are or who they will become. Those will be revealed as you play through the choices
you make, the orders you follow, who you leave behind, and when you rebel. Allow yourself
to be convinced over the course of your game that maybe your pilot isnÔÇÖt who they thought
104


===== P├üGINA 105 =====

they were, or who you thought they were.
HUSTLE TO GET AHEAD
After a couple sessions you might notice that the Squad is barely staying afloat with the
costs of Quirks, repairs, recovery, and all the other places your hard earned Supply Points
go. This is because the power structures of the Factions in Beam Saber donÔÇÖt exist to
improve the lives of the pilots. They are there so that the Faction can continue to fight The
War.
If a pilot wants to get enough Drive to change their circumstances, or a Squad wants
to get enough Supply Points to increase its Tier, they are going to have to find alternate
income sources. Scavenge, loot, steal, ÔÇťrequisition,ÔÇŁ extort, and sell. If you rely on the end of
mission Supply Roll youÔÇÖll never get ahead.
BREAK THE RULES WITH LONG TERM PROJECTS
While Long Term Projects can be used for tasks like improving the Quality of a weapon or
infiltrating an enemy squad, they can be used for literally anything. They could break the
rules of the game (for example by adding an extra level 3 Harm box to a pilot, making it so
that all of a vehicleÔÇÖs Load becomes undeclared at the start of a mission for free, or by
removing Scars), completely change the direction of the campaign (a pilot could start a
project to become the leader of their Faction, or upLoad their consciousness into their
vehicle), or drastically alter the setting (starting a new ice age by pushing the planet farther
from the sun, or setting up a resonant electro-magnetic field in the orbiting debris field to
destroy all electronics).
Anything is possible, however, the ultimate goal of the project should be discussed
with other players and GM. Drastic changes like this will likely require that multiple 8 tick
Clocks be filled, each one completing a step in the overall project. Remember that this is an
option, and not an obligation. If you like that game as it is, stick with it.
ACT NOW, PLAN LATER
There's a tendency for players to hugely over plan when they have the initiative to act. They
come up with a good simple plan, and then start poking holes in it which are increasingly
unlikely occurrences. These holes then need plans to patch them up, and those have holes,
and this continues far longer than it needs to dragging play to a halt.
Flashbacks and undeclared Load help to alleviate this. If you or another player starts
down the plan spiral, stop it, take action, and when you need to deal with an obstacle have a
Flashback or declare an item. This will keep up the momentum.
105


===== P├üGINA 106 =====

FICTION-FIRST GAMING
Fiction First is a term that refers to the practice of using the gameÔÇÖs narrative to determine
what mechanics are used, rather than using mechanics to decide what happens in the
fiction. In many games a player will take an action by saying something like ÔÇťI shoot the
target,ÔÇŁ they roll to shoot, and any description (such as ÔÇťI peak around the corner and fire a
quick shotÔÇŁ) that comes out of the situation is an afterthought. Ultimately the fiction takes a
back seat to the mechanics, and the game could be played without any narration at all.
Fiction First makes the mechanics flow from the narrative.
The way this works in Beam Saber is that rather than saying the action used, a
player describes what their pilot does and then the circumstances help determine what
mechanics are used. Anyone playing can provide suggestions for this. If a player wants to
shoot a target, we must determine the surrounding situation. Here are some examples. If the
shot is:
´üČ At a target range and the pilot is just practicing, thatÔÇÖs probably the Train Downtime
activity. ThereÔÇÖs no risk in taking the shot and no benefit for being exceptionally
accurate.
´üČ Part of a laser tag match with a friend, thatÔÇÖs probably a Cut Loose Downtime
activity. ThereÔÇÖs no risk, and the purpose of doing it is to have fun.
´üČ At a bullseye during a competition, thatÔÇÖs probably a Fortune Roll. ThereÔÇÖs no risk,
but a stronger performance will provide greater benefits.
´üČ Part of a heated battle inside an apartment, thatÔÇÖs probably an Action Roll using
Struggle. Bad things will happen if the shot misses, and the range is most suitable
for the Struggle action.
´üČ At an unaware target a few feet away, thatÔÇÖs probably an Action Roll using Prowl.
Bad things will happen if the shot misses, and the sneaky nature of the attack
makes Prowl ideal.
´üČ Through a vehicle at a munitions factory with the goal of levelling the facility, thatÔÇÖs
probably an Action Roll using Destroy. Bad things will happen if the shot misses,
and the scale of the destructive force involved means that Destroy is best.
There are any number of scenarios this activity could occur in, and itÔÇÖs up to the
players to consider the narrative circumstances that will affect the mechanics. Trying to pick
the mechanic first and then applying a narrative can make the process messy. YouÔÇÖll likely
find that establishing the fiction will be streamline choosing the mechanics.
If things do become confused back out from the mechanics and up to the fictional
106


===== P├üGINA 107 =====

layer. Ask the following questions:
´üČ WhatÔÇÖs happening?
´üČ What is the player trying to accomplish?
´üČ What mechanic supports that goal?
Remember that while there may be a mechanic that is an obvious answer for
accomplishing a goal, thereÔÇÖs nothing wrong with choosing one for stylistic reasons. The
mechanics exist to support the fiction after all.
TRIGGERING THE ACTION ROLL
Now that weÔÇÖve established why fiction comes first in Beam Saber, hereÔÇÖs when the
mechanics are used.
Most of the play in the game will take the form of a conversation between the people
playing. That might be talking in character, describing actions, making plans, and all the fun
that comes of spending time gaming with friends. There will come a time for dice though,
and it is primarily the GMÔÇÖs responsibility (though anyone can suggest it) to determine when
itÔÇÖs time to roll. Here are a few situations when an Action Roll is necessary:
´üČ A pilot attempts an activity that is dangerous, or has the potential for another
repercussion.
´üČ A pilot leads one or more NPCs in (or orders them to do) a dangerous or
challenging activity.
´üČ A player is really excited to make a roll!
At this point the process described in the Action Roll section (see page ??) triggers,
but remember to listen to the suggestions of everyone at the table for each step. This will
determine if the action is a failure (1-3), a full success (6), or a bit of both (4-5).
Some people are uncomfortable with the idea of having a consequence as part of
their success on a 4-5. In Beam Saber action rolls determine the outcome for both the pilotÔÇÖs
action and their oppositionÔÇÖs action. The type of dramatic situations that call for Action Rolls
mean that the enemy is attempting to achieve their goals at the same time as the pilot! A
partial success means that the opposition has found success alongside the pilot. A single
action roll covers a back and forth exchange of blows, words, maneuvers, or whatever form
the conflict takes; so the wounds inflicted apply to both sides.
HOW TO CHOOSE AN ACTION
When an Action Roll is required, the action that should be rolled will often be clear because
of what the pilot is doing in the fiction. However, a player is always allowed to change what
107


===== P├üGINA 108 =====

Action they are doing so long as what the pilot is doing in the fiction also changes to better fit
the new Action. A player cannot choose an Action that clearly does not fit the situation, such
as using Struggle to ÔÇťgrappleÔÇŁ with the words of an opponent during a debate. There will be
times where multiple Actions suitably fit the fiction. In these instances the player chooses
what Action to use, and the GM chooses the appropriate Position and Effect.
THE PURPOSES OF DANGERS & STRESS
To some GMs the ability of players to negate any consequences with a Resistance roll
seems incredibly powerful, perhaps too powerful. This is intentional. The odds stacked
against the pilots are intense and they need resources like Stress and Resistance rolls to
overcome them. Even with those they will often fail, and decide that they might need to have
the Stress later, rather than spend it now.
Even when negated by Resistance Rolls, Harm and Damage still serve an important
purpose. The act of describing how pilots and their vehicles are wounded builds tension. As
the GM narrates a massive chainsaw tearing through the cockpit towards the pilot inside, the
players get scared. The stakes are raised, emotionally investing them in what is happening.
Since theyÔÇÖre so invested they spend that Stress. They say ÔÇťNo! I hit the gas and dodge out
of the chainsawÔÇÖs path.ÔÇŁ They reduce the severity of the consequence, or negate it entirely,
and doing so requires them to describe how they do it. The player gets to show just how
formidable their pilot is, which makes them feel powerful! That feeling of power gives them
hope in the face of the harsh challenges they must overcome.
When Consequences, Stress, and Resistance Rolls are combined in play it creates
an exciting narrative. The GM describes dangerous outcomes of the playersÔÇÖ rolls, and they
counter by detailing how their awesome pilots avoid that terrible fate. This back and forth
conversation will create some of the most dramatic exchanges in your campaign!
THEREÔÇÖS ALWAYS A CONSEQUENCE
If dice are rolled in Beam Saber itÔÇÖs because the fiction is changing. This might mean that the
pilots change the world to suit them (6), something bad happens (on a 1-3), or both. There
should never be an outcome where the result is ÔÇťnothing happens.ÔÇŁ The closest is a failure in
a Controlled Position but that still results in the pilot acting riskier or realizing that their plan
was too perilous.
BUILD SLOWLY
The rules are designed so that you only need Action rolls; just use a Risky Position and
Standard Effect at first. As the players start asking questions about what they can do, thatÔÇÖs
108


===== P├üGINA 109 =====

when the more complex rules should be explained. If a player wants more dice on a roll, itÔÇÖs
time to explain Stress and Pushing Yourself. When the Squad is outnumbered by foes or
higher Tier foes, then tell them about Effect. The game works best when all the rules are in
play, but the group can build up to that!
This guideline should also be followed for the fiction. The whole world and plot donÔÇÖt
have to be figured out from the first session. Have enough for the first mission to make
sense (which will likely be provided through the NPCs developed in Pilot and Squad
creation) and then add detail when you need it. If you realize that you made a mistake in
something you described, donÔÇÖt worry about it! Just explain your mistake to the players and
what youÔÇÖre changing.
SETTING PRECEDENTS
The laws of reality need to be consistent between the Pilots and NPCs, or the fiction will
break. If a NPC can shoot through a vehicleÔÇÖs cockpit with a pilotÔÇÖs rifle, then the Scout
should be able to attempt that as well. Likewise if a PC is the only person who can pilot their
customized vehicle, then the same is true for NPC vehicles.
Every time that new facts for the world are introduced they become opportunities for
everyone. It may become clear that these precedents need to be changed at some point in
the game, just like creating the precedent changes the game. DonÔÇÖt hesitate to make those
changed, but remember that they apply for both Pilots and NPCs!
ABSTRACTION VS DETAIL
Everything doesnÔÇÖt have to be described in exact detail for a story to be well told. Often it is
less important to know exactly how far away something is, than it is to know whether you will
get there in time. We donÔÇÖt need to know the exact price of the bribe, just that it cost 1
Personnel.
Likewise there will be times when a player lacks the skills or knowledge that their
pilot would certainly have. We donÔÇÖt expect players to do the math behind an Engineer roll,
and we should similarly give that level of abstraction to social scenes for players who arenÔÇÖt
comfortable acting them out in fine detail.
The time when details should be described is when an actionÔÇÖs Position and Effect
are being determined, as they rely on details. When trying to bribe the guard do they have
their gun to your head, an armÔÇÖs length away, or still in their holster? The details are also
important for any precedents that have been established as previously discussed.
109


===== P├üGINA 110 =====

THE VEHICLES
INSERT VEHICLES CHAPTER ART HERE
110


===== P├üGINA 111 =====

Beam Saber is about Pilots AND their massive war machines. These vehicles are not just a
means of engaging in war, they are representative of the pilot within. It will be as tied to the
pilotÔÇÖs reputation as their face and actions. Not only is it part of the pilotÔÇÖs public identity, it
also reflects who they are. Pilots that favour misdirection out of the cockpit will have vehicles
that use similar methods. The vehicles piloted by those that consider themselves just pawns
in the conflict will be basic workhorse models, and those who think they are grand will put
capes and gold on their vehicle. Keep this in mind as you make and usevehicles, whether
youÔÇÖre the GM or a player.
VEHICLE CREATION
The directions that follow are useful for creating your vehicle step by step, however if you
want to randomly generate your vehicle in part or in whole jump to The Playtesters
Resources Random Tables link for methods to do that.
1. Choose the look of your vehicle, and name its model and manufacturer.
2. Choose your vehicleÔÇÖs Load, but you don't detail what gear it has at this time.
3. Assign 3 points by dividing them among the vehicle actions. A vehicle action cannot
exceed 2 points at character creation.
4. Create 4 Quirks for your vehicle.
VEHICLE LOOKS
Note that a vehicle in Beam Saber can be anything from a mech to a dump truck to a fighter
jet to a tank. The rules and looks can work for any machine that is piloted by a person. Here
are some suggestions for how to describe your vehicleÔÇÖs look.
´üČ Mobility: bipedal, quadrupedal, flight, hover, wheeled, treads, anti-grav, rotor
´üČ Arms: none, humanoid, tentacle, industrial, hardpoint, wings, ornate
´üČ Hand: none, industrial, human, tentacle, weaponized, ornate
´üČ Core: armored, armed, light, bulky, practical, massive, ornate
´üČ Head: none, armored, armed, hi-tech, ornate, practical
´üČ Cockpit: sealed, open, armored, spacious, cramped, homey, customized
´üČ Shell: organic, hard light, ceramic, alloy, plastic, crystal.
´üČ Style: ornate, practical, improvised, custom, fashionable, sleek, powerful, artistic
111


===== P├üGINA 112 =====

VEHICLE ACTIONS
The abilities of a vehicle are as important to the outcome of an action as the skill of the pilot.
When a pilot needs to roll an action that uses their vehicle they roll the relevant vehicle
action rating. If a pilot tries to remotely pilot a vehicle or a vehicle that is not theirs they have
reduced Effect.
All vehicle action ratings max out at 4 points, but during pilot creation they can't have
more than 2 points in an action. The mastery Squad upgrade is required to unlock the fourth
point. Vehicles have access to the following actions:
EXPERTISE ACTIONS
These are actions that test the vehicle's physicality.
Battle: for attacking at short range.
Destroy: for razing with unsubtle methods.
Maneuver: for moving swiftly and precisely.
ACUITY ACTIONS
These are actions that use the vehicle's awareness.
Bombard: for blasting with long-range fire.
Manipulate: for deftly handling objects.
Scan: for quickly assessing a situation.
All vehicle actions belong to the Expertise or Acuity attributes. These attributes are used to
determine the number of Quirks it will cost your Vehicle to resist a Consequence (see
page ??). They gain a point of XP when a Desperate vehicle action is performed with them,
or a point of general XP is assigned to them. When the Vehicle Enhance track is filled
through the Enhance Downtime Activity an additional point can be added to any Vehicle
Action.
QUIRKS
Quirks are the unique qualities a vehicle possesses that a pilot familiar with it can use to
their advantage. However these Quirks arenÔÇÖt wholly positive and if all of them are applied
without maintenance the vehicle will suffer a Breakdown.
CREATING QUIRKS
Every vehicle starts with 4 Quirks that the pilot is already familiar with. These first 4 Quirks
112


===== P├üGINA 113 =====

are likely common to that model of vehicle. Up to 4 additional Quirks (for a total of 8) can be
gained by filling the Enhance track with the Enhance Downtime activity, and these ones are
unique to this specific vehicle.
Each Quirk has 2 descriptors that determine when the Quirk can be used. These
descriptors show how the pilot can push their vehicle in just the right way to get more out of
it than designed for. For example a vehicle might have ÔÇťRoaring FastÔÇŁ and can be pushed for
more speed or noise. When selecting your descriptors make sure that at least one of them
can be interpreted as a disadvantage because struggling due to your Quirks provides XP at
the end of the session.
If you are having trouble thinking of Quirks you want, look at the Specialist Vehicle
Gear available to playbooks other than your own. Think of a negative descriptor you can add
to that gear, and take the two as a Quirk. For example you could have: Intermittent Optical
Camo, Fragile Magnification Suite, or Cumbersome Electronic Filter. Doing this gives you
gear from another playbook that can be used once per mission.
If a player discovers that a Quirk isnÔÇÖt a good fit for their vehicle they should speak
with their GM about changing it. If the Quirk is bad because itÔÇÖs rarely used and the player
feels that a new one would be more useful, just change it and consider it no different than its
previous version. If the narrative has changed the vehicleÔÇÖs nature making the Quirk no
longer applicable, then describe what changed, how it changed, and just change the Quirk.
EXAMPLE QUIRKS
´üČ Ominous Appearance ´üČ Splintering Carapace
´üČ Flexible Structure ´üČ Mighty Clumsy
´üČ Slow and Heavy ´üČ Light Footed
´üČ Military Workhorse ´üČ Common Parts
´üČ Fixed Hardpoints ´üČ Redundant Systems
´üČ Blinding Boosters ´üČ Aggressive Targeters
USING QUIRKS
A pilot can push their vehicle by exhausting a Quirk for each of the following benefits: +1d to
a vehicle Action Roll; Improved Effect with a vehicle action; or to take a vehicle action when
the vehicle has level 3 damage. A Quirk can only be exhausted for pushing when one or
more of its descriptors would be advantageous. When you exhaust a Quirk mark the box
next to it.
When a vehicleÔÇÖs Quirks have all been exhausted (4 Quirks in most cases) its pilot
can either send the vehicle limping home quietly or try to push past its limits.
113


===== P├üGINA 114 =====

´üČ If the pilot chooses to send their vehicle away it refreshes all Quirks, is removed
from the scene and mission in a terrible state, then gains a Breakdown tick and
the final Quirk exhausted has one of its descriptors worsened. The pilot does not
have to leave the scene or mission. The vehicle becomes available again at an
appropriate time, presumably after it has been refueled and polished.
´üČ If the pilot pushes their vehicle past its limits they take a Dire Action. If a Dire
Action is taken the pilot can ignore any damage penalties the vehicle currently has
for a single action. It cannot exhaust Quirks to take this action, nor can it resist
Consequences, since all of its Quirks are exhausted. If it gets a 6 on its action it
can take another vehicle action, potentially allowing it to have several fully
successful actions. If a 5 or lower is rolled, or they choose to take no further action
(other pilots can still act between the Dire Actions of the vehicle), that is its last
action. On a result of less than 6 they suffer consequences as normal.
After taking its last action, or if the scene ends, it receives an appropriate Level 3
Damage, is removed from the scene and mission, then gains a Breakdown tick as
normal.
If they roll a crit they refresh 1 Quirk of their choice instead of having improved
Effect, are no longer taking Dire actions, and instead return to acting normally.
They avoid taking a Breakdown tick and the Level 3 Damage caused by the Dire
Action.
´üČ If a pilot suffers the repercussions of their vehicleÔÇÖs Quirks during a session, they
can mark XP at the end of the session. This can occur through narrative play, such
as missing opportunities or needlessly creating trouble, and also through
Consequences on Action Rolls. When you see an opportunity for a Quirk to cause
you trouble, tell the GM and they'll add an appropriate Consequence to your roll,
regardless of the result.
Instead of pushing their vehicle a pilot can use their vehicleÔÇÖs Quirks to resist consequences.
This is explained in the Resistance section (page ??)
DAMAGE
Damage is a major blow that impedes the function of the vehicle. Level 1 damage reduces
the Effect of vehicle actions. Level 2 damage gives -1d to vehicle actions. Level 3 damage
means the vehicle canÔÇÖt act without being pushed by exhausting 1 Quirk. If a vehicle suffers
level 4 damage (or fatal damage) it is destroyed beyond repair. The pilot immediately suffers
appropriate level 3 Harm that can be resisted as normal. An Engineer action to salvage the
114


===== P├üGINA 115 =====

best parts quickly can be done while on a mission, which generates 1 Supply Point with a
success, or the entire vehicle can be towed away to be salvaged during Downtime.
BREAKDOWN
Breakdown is permanent damage to the vehicle where only the symptoms can be treated.
They could potentially be fixed with a Long Term Project. When a vehicle acquires its fourth
Breakdown tick it is damaged beyond repair or function and must be scrapped (or salvaged
during Downtime).
LOAD
Load is the equipment that a vehicle has been outfitted with. ItÔÇÖs an abstraction of how much
of the vehicleÔÇÖs resources are occupied by its use. Resources such as weight, balance, bulk,
and computing power. A vehicle has access to all the general vehicle gear and their class
and squadÔÇÖs specialist vehicle gear.
At the start of the first mission decide if the vehicle is carrying a Light, Medium, or
Heavy Load.
´üČ A Light vehicle is faster and less conspicuous giving it improved Effect when those
features are advantageous, and has a max Load of 3. The advantage of taking a
Light Vehicle is that it will be faster and stealthier than others, but it will have less
versatility due to its lower Load. Light Vehicles are smaller allowing them to fit into
places that others cannot, such as building interiors, or small caverns and tunnels.
´üČ A Medium vehicle looks like itÔÇÖs geared up for trouble, and has a max Load of 5.
Medium Vehicles seek to strike a balance between the two doctrines represented by
Lights and Heavies. As their size is between the other types they often have access
to the same options, but may require an Action Roll where smaller or larger Vehicles
could automatically succeed.
´üČ A Heavy vehicle is slower and looks like itÔÇÖs ready for war, thus giving it decreased
Effect when those features are a problem, and has a max Load of 6. Heavy Vehicles
have a great deal of versatility as they have double the Load of a Light, but this
makes them less agile and more obvious. Heavy Vehicles larger than others meaning
they can frequently reach places others cannot, and are also often out of reach for
enemy operators.
115


===== P├üGINA 116 =====

There will be times where the size of a Vehicle is important, such as trying to reach a
person on a rooftop. In these situations remember that the fiction is important, so what is
possible and what succeeds without an Action Roll can vary. If a player really wants to take
advantage of their Vehicle's physicality, they should make Quirks (see page ??) related to its
size and shape.
Your vehicle has undeclared Load slots equal to your selected max Load. During a
mission you can say that your vehicle has an item as part of its Load by writing the gear over
a number of undeclared slots equal to the itemÔÇÖs Load. Some items will be Load 0 and don't
fill any Load slots.
Changing the gear that a vehicle is equipped with is an involved process, even for
vehicles with quick release hardpoints or hands. Many pieces of gear have components that
are integrated with the internals of the vehicle or communicate with its computer systems
necessitating extensive calibrations and testing. Plus thereÔÇÖs the need to requisition the gear
itself.
Once a Load slot is declared it can only be changed back to undeclared during
Downtime by spending Materiel equal to the number of slots occupied by the gear, but this
change doesnÔÇÖt require an action. Additionally Vehicles never change their Load category
(Light, Medium, or Heavy), except as a possible benefit from an appropriate Long Term
Project. If a consequence destroys a piece of gear it isnÔÇÖt removed from the Load slot and
continues to occupy the same Load slots but as useless ÔÇťjunk.ÔÇŁ
Stealing a piece of gear takes up an amount of Load as is suitable for the fiction. At the end
of a mission that Load slot is returned to undeclared if it has only been carried, as the gear is
removed from the vehicleÔÇÖs storage capacity. If the gear is used then the vehicle was
prepared for the possibility of its use and to change its slots back to undeclared Materiel
points must be spent as normal.
If a pilot steals a piece of gear of a higher Tier than the squadÔÇÖs Tier it counts as a fine item
for the rest of the mission, and the next mission. After the follow up mission the gear loses
the fine Quality as the squadÔÇÖs support infrastructure is not up to the task of maintaining that
gear at its peak performance. A Long Term Project could be completed to upgrade the
supporting infrastructure so that a piece of gear could permanently have the fine Quality.
Using lower Tier gear provides no benefit and may in fact cause a worse Position or Effect
as the fiction demands.
116


===== P├üGINA 117 =====

STANDARD VEHICLE GEAR
When changing your vehicleÔÇÖs Load slots from undeclared to a specified item you can select
from the items of your Playbook and from the following:
´üČ Supply reserves [Load 2]: Allows the Squad access to their Supply points during
Downtime even if the fiction says that they should be unable to access them.
´üČ Armor [Load 2]: spend to reduce Damage by 1 level. Armor is restored at the start
of Downtime at no cost. Armor can be taken multiple times, each costing 2 Load
and able to be spent once per mission.
´üČ A melee weapon or two [Load 1]: A vehicle-mounted melee weapon such as tire
spikes, a plow, or hand held blade.
´üČ A rack of missiles or rockets [Load 1]: A case full of guided or unguided self
propelled explosives that often cause unintended destruction.
´üČ A machine gun [Load 1]: A heavy machine gun Effective against vehicles, and
devastating against infantry, at relatively short ranges.
´üČ A heavy cannon [Load 2]: a large bore cannon designed for penetrating heavy
armor that has a low rate of fire but a long-range.
´üČ A flamethrower [Load 1]: a nozzle that fires a stream of burning liquid and is
terrifyingly Effective against unarmoured or lightly armoured targets.
´üČ A directed energy weapon [Load 1]: a device that coalesces a highly visible beam
of thermal energy useful for melting through targets but prone to overheating.
´üČ A shield or forcefield [Load 1]: a pilot directed thick alloy plating, or
electromagnetic barrier held at a distance from the vehicleÔÇÖs body to protect from
incoming attacks. Does not count as Armor for reducing Damage.
´üČ A holo-projector [Load 1]: can be used to visualize the AR or specific images.
´üČ A spotlight or flare mortar [Load 1]: a source of illumination mounted on the
vehicle; the former offers directed light while the latter illuminates a wide area for
several minutes by launching into the air.
´üČ Mobility Suite [Load 2]: A full flight system, dash thrusters, all terrain suspension,
or some other modification providing extra mobility to the vehicle.
´üČ Grapnel anchor tool [Load 1]: Harpoons that stabilize a vehicle to prevent it from
shifting Position, or allow it to rappel and slowly climb vertical surfaces.
´üČ Intrusion Countermeasures Program (ICP) [Load 1]: Dedicated computer
systems for preventing hacking.
117


===== P├üGINA 118 =====

´üČ Coding Program [Load 0]: Some vehicles come with a limited code editor as part
of their OS.
´üČ Retrieval Program [Load 0]: Some vehicles have programs for searching through
connected databases.
´üČ Cargo space [Load 1]: a contained area suitable for moving a large amount of
objects or a few large objects.
´üČ Anti-infantry defences [Load 1]: a close range shrapnel launcher that shreds flesh
and light materials but does little to sturdy objects.
´üČ Passenger space [Load 1]: a contained area suitable for a few to travel in comfort,
or many to travel in cramped conditions. A vehicle without passenger space can
uncomfortably fit two people, including the pilot, in the cockpit or equivalent.
´üČ Modding tools [Load 1]: Tools for modifying large objects on the fly.
´üČ Destruction tools [Load 2]: Tools for smashing buildings, vehicles, and other large
objects.
VEHICLE ADVANCEMENT
As pilots move through their careers what their vehicles can do will improve as they put work
into upgrading them, and experience more harrowing situations. To do this a pilot must
perform Desperate Vehicle Actions, or the Enhance Downtime Activity.
When a Desperate Vehicle Action is rolled put 1 XP into the the attribute that the action falls
under. When that attribute reaches 6 XP one point can be added to any of its actions to a
max of 3 (or 4 if the Squad has the Mastery upgrade). Then the AttributeÔÇÖs XP resets to zero.
If the Enhance Downtime Activity is performed add 1 mark to the Vehicle Enhance track. If
the Squad has the Testing Facility upgrade, the vehicle being Upgraded receives 2 marks
instead. When that track fills (6 marks), a point can be added to any Vehicle Action OR a
new Quirk can be gained. Then the Enhance track resets to zero.
ACQUIRING A NEW VEHICLE
There will be times when a pilot uses a vehicle other than the one they had at character
creation. This may be due to any number of reasons but generally falls into one of three
categories: a replacement vehicle, a temporary vehicle, or a borrowed vehicle.
REPLACEMENT VEHICLES
When a pilotÔÇÖs vehicle is destroyed from suffering level 4 damage or receiving its fourth
Breakdown tick it must be replaced with great cost and effort. If a vehicle is replaced before
118


===== P├üGINA 119 =====

it is destroyed the same methods for acquiring a replacement are used. If the newly acquired
vehicle comes from a Squad with a different Tier than the pilots its Tier becomes the same
as the pilots. This is due to the Squad either improving its systems to bring it up to their
standards, or they lack the infrastructure to maintain it at a higher Quality.
To purchase a new vehicle the pilot must first have a patron Faction or contact that can sell
them a vehicle. Then they must spend Materiel points equal to the new vehicleÔÇÖs Load plus 1
Materiel per level of the squadÔÇÖs Tier so that it is fully Loaded and maintained to the squadÔÇÖs
standards.
Alternatively a vehicle may be acquired through less honest means with a Long Term Project
or mission. Vehicles acquired this way start with the level 2 damage ÔÇťUnfamiliarÔÇŁ in addition
to any other damage sustained while it was being obtained. ItÔÇÖs Load and declared gear is
determined by the GM based on the established fiction, and it cannot have any undeclared
Load. It starts with no Quirks exhausted.
All replacement vehicles are created using the normal vehicle creation rules.
TEMPORARY VEHICLES
A temporary vehicle is one that does not replace the vehicle on the pilotÔÇÖs character sheet.
This may be because it has been hijacked from an enemy, or is too mundane to bother
keeping extensive notes on. When a pilot is in a temporary vehicle they have improved
Effect to vehicle actions if the vehicle is of a higher Tier than the squad, and reduced Effect if
it has a lower Tier.
Temporary vehicles do not track Quirks or damage, instead they have a progress Clock that
represents their ability to continue functioning. When the Clock fills the vehicle is destroyed
in a probably spectacular fashion. Pilots can push temporary vehicles by adding two ticks to
this destruction Clock and resist consequences by adding three ticks. Either may overfill the
Clock. When a temporary vehicle sustains damage the GM adds a number of ticks to the
destruction Clock according to the consequence list. Mundane vehicles (such as a sedan,
shuttle, jet ski, etc.) have a 4 tick destruction Clock, while enemy vehicles (such as a tank,
mech, fighter jet, etc.) have a 6 tick destruction Clock.
BORROWED VEHICLES
When a pilot gets into a squadmateÔÇÖs vehicle their own vehicle is generally not replaced. If
this is indeed a hand me down, use the rules for Replacement Vehicles above. The pilot
uses the vehicleÔÇÖs declared gear, but only the owner can declare new gear. Quirks
exhausted and Damage taken is marked on the ownerÔÇÖs character sheet the same as if they
were in the cockpit. The pilot in the vehicle uses their own vehicle actions as they will be
able to nudge the vehicle in unexpected ways, however they may also be unfamiliar with
119


===== P├üGINA 120 =====

certain systems and thus cannot take advantage of the ownerÔÇÖs vehicle action ratings.
VEHICLE ACTIONS IN DEPTH
This section contains extended descriptions of each Vehicle Action.
BATTLE
When you Battle, you engage in vehicular close quarters combat. You might lash out with
your scoop arm. You might fire your Gatling gun in a dogfight. In a Flashback you might have
feigned an attack to increase security. You could perform a PIT maneuver (but Maneuver
might be better).
BOMBARD
When you Bombard, you use vehicular weapons designed to attack targets beyond human
sight. You might designate long-range missile targets. You might shoot a railgun through a
skyscraper at an enemy. In a Flashback you might have taken out a ship full of enemy
reinforcements. You could use saturation bombardment (but Destroy might be better).
DESTROY
When you Destroy, you employ overwhelming destruction through your vehicle. You might
carpet bomb a military base. You might smash a building with a wrecking ball. In a Flashback
you might have collapsed a roadway tunnel along the route ahead. You could attack using a
bus as a weapon (but Battle might be better).
MANEUVER
When you Maneuver, you move your vehicle with skill and agility. You might fly through the
valley between skyscrapers. You might creep across an unsteady bridge. In a Flashback you
might have snuck your vehicle into a disused subway tunnel. You could gently nudge
another vehicle into a specific Position (but Manipulate might be better).
MANIPULATE
When you Manipulate, you deftly move things with your vehicle. You might remove a primed
warhead from a missile. You might pick up a baby in its carriage. In a Flashback you might
have destroyed a vehicleÔÇÖs mobility suite while keeping the damage hidden. You could
reattach a damaged arm (but Engineer might be better).
SCAN
When you Scan, you broadly observe the situation around you through your vehicle. You
120


===== P├üGINA 121 =====

might identify the model of approaching vehicles. You might spot the heat signature of an
active generator. In a Flashback you might have noticed the seismic readings from an
incoming tunneling vehicle. You could try to judge a buildingÔÇÖs Stress points (but Study might
be better).
VEHICLES IN THE WORLD
A vehicle in Beam Saber is not a common piece of equipment. While many citizens have
access to automobiles of varying styles and sizes (and even some civilian versions of pilot
vehicles), vehicles available to pilots are in a different league. They are larger, tougher, more
versatile, and have built in life support. All of this is mechanically represented by the rules,
but those donÔÇÖt explain what that means in the fiction.
LIGHT VEHICLES
Light vehicles are generally about 30 feet in length or height, depending on the nature of the
vehicle. Some are smaller though all are designed such that the pilot remains entirely
contained within the vehicleÔÇÖs cockpit. Although commonly larger than automobiles, Light
vehicles arenÔÇÖt always conspicuous, especially when their civilian equivalents can be similar
in appearance. This is similar to how public transit buses stand out in a sea of cars, but they
rarely get a second look.
MEDIUM VEHICLES
Medium vehicles average approximately 45 feet in length or height, give or take 5 feet.
These are always notable when seen and arouse curiosity in onlookers. The reactions to a
Medium is comparable to the presence of a police command vehicle: it occupies a lot of
space physically and mentally. ItÔÇÖs not inherently dangerous but something serious is going
down if itÔÇÖs here.
HEAVY VEHICLES
Heavy vehicles max out at 60 feet in length or height. Anything larger is too big to be
controlled by a single pilot, and starts to require a full crew (putting it beyond the scope of
this game). Heavies are always a sign that someoneÔÇÖs day is about to be ruined, and unless
presented in an exceedingly friendly manner will be given a wide berth by the public.
Imagine a missile truck located in a public space and you start to get the idea of how much a
heavy vehicle stands out.
THE HISTORY OF VEHICLES
The relationship that characters in the setting have with the vehicles of Beam Saber is a
121


===== P├üGINA 122 =====

point that should be considered as it will colour the nature of the campaign. Here are some
questions to help determine their place in your world.
Are vehicles heirlooms passed down from parent to child?
In a culture where vehicles are inherited, through bloodlines or other tradition, it implies a
number of expectations. First is that the vehicles are incredibly valuable, monetarily,
historically, and emotionally. Second is that pilots are likely expected to provide their own
vehicles when they join the War. This in turn means that the ruling bodyÔÇÖs military power is
dispersed amongst its citizens or at least those powerful enough to own these vehicles.
Fourth is that vehicles instantly become an obvious symbol of both wealth and power, so the
populaceÔÇÖs reaction to a vehicle will be colored by their relationship with people of wealth
and power. Additionally, those who have vehicles will have access to people with the skills to
maintain them (further cementing their wealth). Lastly, the vehicles are probably old. They
may be lovingly maintained, dilapidated, full of improvised fixes, or some combination of the
above. It could be that new ones arenÔÇÖt being made anymore and parts need to be salvaged
from other vehicles.
Are vehicles fresh off the line?
If the vehicles are being made regularly then a manufacturing base exists in the setting.
Further, powerful organizations will widely use vehicles to maintain and expand their
influence. Low ranking and inexperienced pilots will be given access to them. They may be
used more frivolously as they can be easily replaced.
Are they seen as heroic, cowardly, monstrous or something else?
A culture in your campaign might portray those vehicles as the modern equivalent of
chivalrous knights, valiantly fighting to protect the homeland. Perhaps they are disdained for
taking much of the human element out of battle, becoming symbols of a world too eager to
indulge in massive battles. Maybe their raw destructive power is emphasized in the publicÔÇÖs
mind, so they become monsters, mechanical beasts that can easily kill a person accidentally
and just as easily kill swathes of people intentionally. Could be theyÔÇÖre just tools, most arenÔÇÖt
armed and are considered little more than bulldozers with legs.
Have they been introduced to The War recently, or have they existed for generations?
122


===== P├üGINA 123 =====

If the types of vehicles available to pilots are a new part of The War then thereÔÇÖll be more
uncertainty about them. Commanders wonÔÇÖt know how to make use of them, people wonÔÇÖt
know how dangerous they are, and parts may be difficult to obtain because the supporting
infrastructure isnÔÇÖt in place yet. Conversely, if theyÔÇÖve existed for a while most of those
problems will be absent, and there will be a certain mundanity to vehicles.
123


===== P├üGINA 124 =====

THE SQUADS AND FACTIONS
PILOTS, SQUADS AND FACTIONS
In Beam Saber there are three levels of actors: the Pilot, the Squad, and the Faction.
´üČ The Pilot is the individual role filled by the players and NPCs. Not all pilots control
vehicles, itÔÇÖs just the common parlance for those active in The War. Generally
speaking their influence doesnÔÇÖt extend much further than those they can
personally interact with. Sometimes the right person in the right place at the right
time can change the fate of worlds, but the vast majority of the time the best a pilot
can do in The War is survive and keep those close to them safe.
´üČ The Squad is comprised of multiple pilots and their support staff. Some squads
number fewer than 10, while the largest can be hundreds of people in the same
command structure. However a Squad is still people. People can be persuaded,
betrayed, killed, seduced, deceived, and generally acted upon directly. In short
squads can be overcome.
´üČ The Faction is an organizational entity on a scale so large it has become more of
an idea than anything physical. ItÔÇÖs made up of countless squads and an
unimaginable amount of people. It has transcended beyond the material and
cannot be touched. Which is also its weakness. Factions are slow to act in The War
and must do so through their squads. While a Faction can never be destroyed its
squads can be removed which eliminates its ability to act.
SQUAD CREATION
The directions that follow are useful for creating your Squad step by step, however if you
want to randomly generate your Squad in part or in whole jump to Appendix A for methods to
do that.
1. Choose your squad's patron Faction. The Faction will determine what bonus supplies
you get for completing missions (see Reward section), and guide what goal your Faction is
working on (see Faction Goals section). The possible options are:
ÔŚő Autocracy
ÔŚő Corporatocracy
ÔŚő Democracy
ÔŚő Independent
ÔŚő Oligarchy
124


===== P├üGINA 125 =====

ÔŚő Theocracy
Note that while the squadÔÇÖs patron Faction does not necessarily own the squad, it
does expect them to follow its orders and work towards its interests. Additionally the
Independent Faction is purposefully more challenging than other patron Factions.
This is to represent the challenge of working against the established systems, the
structures that support them, and acting without those same supports.
2. Set your Relationship with each Faction to 0. They donÔÇÖt know or care the Squad
is until theyÔÇÖve performed some missions for or against them. Set your Trust with
each Faction to 0 for the same reason.
3. Create a NPC who is the Direct Superior of the squad. This is someone that the
GM can often use to assign the Squad missions, and who the Squad will have a
connection to (for good or ill). One Squad is friendly with the Direct Superior so
take +1 Status with them and describe the connection. Another Squad dislikes the
Direct Superior; take -1 Status with them and describe the issue. See Direct
Superior for suggestions.
4. Choose a goal for your patron Faction. Things to consider in this decision are
the amount of politics, combat, and brutality everyone wants, as well as themes
they might want to explore. Independent squads skip this step. See the Faction
Goals section for more details. The possible options are:
ÔŚő Assault the Foe
ÔŚő Divided They Fall
ÔŚő Golden Streets
ÔŚő Hearts and Minds
ÔŚő Hostile Takeover
ÔŚő Intelligence Coup
ÔŚő Manufacture Heroes
ÔŚő Secure the Borders
5. Choose a Squad Playbook. This will determine the nature of most of your
missions and some common training everyone in the Squad has.
6. Choose an initial reputation and Forward Operating Base (FOB). When you
reinforce your reputation on a mission the Squad marks 1xp. Your starting FOB will
be small and unimpressive. See Squad Reputation for suggestions.
7. Choose a Squad ability. This is a special trick everyone in the Squad can call
upon.
125


===== P├üGINA 126 =====

8. Choose two upgrades. These are tools, Personnel, and facilities the Squad can
use. Each Squad Playbook has two pre-selected upgrades (for example Profiteers
always have Resolve Training and Secure FOB) and the Squad also gets to
choose two more from the Squad Playbook or the general Squad upgrades. A
Squad helped you get the upgrades; take +1 Status with them. Another Squad was
denied those upgrades because you have them; take -1 Status with them. Each of
these squads can be from the same Faction as the playersÔÇÖ Squad and/or from a
different Faction.
9. Name your squad. This might be your official designation or it might be a group
call sign. Other squads and Factions will know you by this name.
SQUAD ADVANCEMENT
At the end of a session look at the squadÔÇÖs XP triggers and take 1 Squad XP for each trigger
that happened this session. For each item that happened multiple times or in a dramatic
fashion, take 2 XP instead. The Squad XP triggers are:
´üČ Your Squad PlaybookÔÇÖs XP trigger. Every Squad Playbook gets XP for doing
missions that suit their specialty.
´üČ Face off against challenges above your pay grade. If you were opposed by
obstacles or foes of a higher Tier take XP.
´üČ Reinforce your squadÔÇÖs reputation or gain a new one. Did the squadÔÇÖs actions
promote what theyÔÇÖre known for, or did they become known for something new?
´üČ Express the goals, drives, inner conflict, or instincts of the squad. This one is
all about playing to what makes your Squad unique and interesting. DonÔÇÖt be too
picky about awarding XP for this.
When the Squad reaches 8 XP reset the XP to zero and then take either two Squad
upgrades or one Squad ability.
CHANGING SQUAD OR PILOT PLAYBOOKS
There might be a time where a player wants to change their pilot Playbook (an Ace becomes
a Soldier) or all the players want to change the squadÔÇÖs Playbook (Profiteers become
Logistics). There are two options for doing this and they depend on the reason for the
change.
´üČ If the change is because the player or group realize that their Playbook doesnÔÇÖt fit
126


===== P├üGINA 127 =====

what they want to do, then make the pilot or Squad over from the beginning, but
keep the same number of advances that have been earned.
´üČ If the switch is because the nature of the pilot or Squad has changed in the
narrative, then transfer the action ratings or Squad upgrades to the new Playbook
(you donÔÇÖt get the starting action points or Squad upgrades though). Keep the
special abilities already earned as Veteran abilities (itÔÇÖs alright if you end up with
more than three).
DIRECT SUPERIOR
The squadÔÇÖs Direct Superior is the NPC that they will probably be interacting with the most.
This person will be higher rank than the pilots, give them orders, and assign them missions.
They should have a title suitable to the Faction they belong to, and a brief description of their
appearance and personality. If the PCs lack a patron Faction and are Independent their
superior might be from another squad, a mysterious source, or someone else with unofficial
authority over the pilots.
Regardless of how the Pilots feel about their Direct Superior there will be another Squad that
likes them, and another that dislikes them. Increase the Squad Status with the Squad that
likes the Direct Superior by 1, and detail an appropriate descriptor. Decrease by 1 the Squad
Status with the Squad that has a problem with the Direct Superior, and add a suitable
descriptor.
Ultimately the purpose of the direct superior is not to boss around the pilots. They are there
as a direct representative of the squadÔÇÖs patron Faction, to embody the link between the
patron and the squad, and as a way for the GM to provide missions to the players. They
should rarely be the focus of the narrative but almost always be a narrative tool for the GM.
EXAMPLE DIRECT SUPERIORS
´üČ Carberry, a shady and cruel fixer.
´üČ Scratch, a cheerful and energetic Proxy.
´üČ Project Lead Walker, an ambitious and hard working manager.
´üČ Executive Assistant McEvoy, a Stressed and organized worker.
´üČ Captain Martinez, a weary and grumpy officer.
´üČ Quartermaster Hawkins, a sentimental and thoughtful trooper.
´üČ Bishop Acampora, a patient and caring member of the clergy.
´üČ Confessor Tebbel, an inquisitive and meticulous theologian.
127


===== P├üGINA 128 =====

´üČ Councillor Swan, a hard hearted and calculating bureaucrat.
´üČ Alderperson Drake, a fiery and passionate politician.
´üČ Virtue de Quidt, an experienced and crafty noble.
´üČ Margrave Takeyuki, a paranoid and meek leader.
SQUAD REPUTATION
The squadÔÇÖs reputation is the idea that immediately springs to mind when a potential
employer thinks about them. It should be a word or phrase that the Squad either already
embodies or strives for, but does not directly speak to their competence. ÔÇťSkilledÔÇŁ is a bad
reputation, try ÔÇťDaringÔÇŁ instead. By living up to their reputation the Squad gets to mark XP at
the end of the session.
EXAMPLE SQUAD REPUTATIONS
´üČ Ambitious ´üČ Honorable
´üČ Amoral ´üČ Professional
´üČ Menacing ´üČ Savvy
´üČ Daring ´üČ Subtle
´üČ Destructive ´üČ Strange
GENERAL SQUAD UPGRADES
The following upgrades are available to any Squad regardless of their type. Two of these are
selected when creating the squad, and whenever the Squad fills its XP track they can take
two more upgrades (from this list or their Playbook) or one Squad ability from the squad's
Playbook. Alternatively a Squad Upgrade can be obtained with a suitable Long-Term Project,
or as the Objective of a Mission.
A Squad Upgrade is a location or piece of infrastructure with features the Squad can
take advantage of for narrative and mechanical bonuses. However the conditions created by
The War means that every Upgrade is already held and used by another squad. Only one
Squad at a time can take advantage of an Upgrade's limited resources, even if the Squads
are on friendly terms.
If the Squad Upgrade is outside of the Region the Squad's FOB is located in, there
may need to be additional tasks completed before capturing the Squad Upgrade can be
attempted. These tasks might involve finding the Squad Upgrade, securing a route between
the Squad Upgrade and FOB, or establishing security at the site. These additional tasks are
probably Long Term Projects or gather information actions, but in certain circumstances may
128


===== P├üGINA 129 =====

be additional missions.
Once any preparations are completed, the Squad can plan a mission with the
Objective of taking control of the Squad Upgrade. If the mission is successful the Squad
immediately gains access to the benefits of the Upgrade.
Once the Squad has control of an Upgrade its safety is not guaranteed. Other
Squads may attempt to capture Upgrades for themselves, or, if desperate enough, try to
destroy them. The Squad can try to defend what is theirs, negotiate with the aggressor, or
simply hand over the Upgrade as the situation requires. If the squad's FOB is lost they lose
the benefits of all Squad Upgrades until the FOB is re-established.
GENERAL SQUAD UPGRADE LIST
´üČ Airfield: The first level provides 1 Supply Point at the start of Downtime Activities.
The second level provides an additional 1 Supply Point (total 2).
´üČ Barracks: Choose one of your Fire Team Cohorts. It get +1 Scale. Extra room
means larger fire teams.
´üČ Blacksite: +1d to Command on-site. Grisly business, but effective.
´üČ CCTV Network: +1d to Survey on-site. With cameras and audio bugs everywhere
youÔÇÖve got the advantage.
´üČ Cohort: Gain a fire team (a group of agents) or specialist (an especially skilled
agent) that works for the squad. Requires 2 Squad upgrades to purchase.
´üČ Collection Agency: Once per Downtime, roll dice equal to your Tier. You earn
Materiel equal to the highest result, minus your most negative Faction status.
Some of the locals are terrified of you and will gladly pay for ÔÇťprotection.ÔÇŁ
´üČ Commissary: You get +1d to Consort rolls on-site. Some rationed items and
friendly conversation can go a long way.
´üČ Cover Business: You reduce trust lost from a missionÔÇÖs target by 2. The cover of
a civilian operation helps deflect some of the attention from those youÔÇÖve hurt.
´üČ Factory: You get +1d to Fix rolls. Any factory can churn out military parts.
´üČ ForgersÔÇÖ Workshop: You get +1d to the engagement roll for deception plans.
False identities help confuse the opposition.
´üČ Guerilla Hideout: You get +1d to the engagement roll for assault plans. The
independent fighters around here help you out now.
´üČ Hack Lab: You get +1d to Interface rolls on-site. A hack lab provides tools, both
physical and digital, for making superb AR works.
129


===== P├üGINA 130 =====

´üČ Hidden FOB: The squad's FOB is hidden from even intensive searches. If it's
discovered a Long Term Project will be required to once again conceal it.
´üČ Holo-grid: You get +1d to Consort with AR entities on-site. This room simplifies
communication between humans and AR entities by bridging their differences.
´üČ Infirmary: You get +1d to Recover rolls. The infirmary has beds for long-term
convalescence and medical automation.
´üČ Lighthouse Satellite: Safe passage in space. When you head into the dark and
can contact this satellite, you canÔÇÖt become lost.
´üČ Loyal Bar: You get +1d to gather information about the current or upcoming
mission. Your eyes and ears on the streets are always on the lookout for you.
´üČ Luxury Venue: +1d to Sway rolls on-site. Silks, paintings, and crystal impress the
clientele.
´üČ Mastery: unlocks 4th action points. Requires 4 Squad upgrades to activate.
´üČ Motor Pool: A first level Motor Pool means you no longer need to pay the Materiel
cost when acquiring new vehicles. At second level the Squad and its Cohorts gain
access to Load 3 temporary vehicles for free.
´üČ Personal Clothier: You get +1d to the engagement roll for social plans. You
always arrive on the scene in the most current and alluring fashions.
´üČ Propaganda Radio: You reduce trust lost from a missionÔÇÖs employer by 2.
Factions donÔÇÖt want any trouble from you; they look the other way.
´üČ Public Works: You get +1 Heart on your Rep track. You can have up to 6 Public
Works. This location supports the locals, so they have your back.
´üČ Quality: Choose a type of item. Those items are better Quality in addition to the
Quality bonuses from the squad's Tier and the fine descriptor. Options are:
Documents, Gear, Programs, Supplies, Tools, Pilot Weapons, and Vehicle
Weapons.
´üČ Quarters: Your FOB has comfortable sleeping space for everyone. Otherwise the
squadÔÇÖs pilots sleep away from the FOB in vulnerable locations.
´üČ Radar Station: +1d to Scan rolls on-site. Tapping into a much larger sensor array
gives you the advantage.
´üČ Refit Station: One of the squadÔÇÖs vehicles may remove a piece of gear, changing
Load slots occupied by it to undeclared at the start of a mission for free. This
automated arrangement of catwalks and cranes make swapping parts easy.
130


===== P├üGINA 131 =====

´üČ Regional Records: You get +1d to the engagement roll for stealth plans. You
can use blueprints and other documents to determine a good approach for
infiltrations.
´üČ Scrapyard: One of the Squad's Vehicles may refresh 1 Quirk at the start of a
mission for free. Spare parts on the cheap!
´üČ Secret Routes: You get +1d to the engagement roll for transport plans. You
might have access to long-forgotten underground subways, little known mountain
paths, or some other route of your choosing.
´üČ Secure FOB: Your FOB has perimeter defenses such as automated turrets, trip
wire explosives, or a sturdy wall. This helps protect your Squad against attacks
while at home. This can be taken twice, with the defenses becoming more effective
with the second upgrade.
´üČ Side Business: Once per Downtime, roll dice equal to your Tier. You earn
Personnel equal to the highest result, minus your most negative Faction status.
What kind of legitimate business is this? How do you get paid in secret?
´üČ Storage: The first level of this upgrade allows the Squad to store up to 8 of all
Supply point types. The second level increases the storage to 16.
´üČ Supercomputer: You get +1d to the engagement roll for scientific plans. Its
running simulations for you.
´üČ Testing Facilities: when taking the Enhance Downtime Activity the vehicle mark 2
boxes on the Enhance track instead of 1.
´üČ Training: Choose Insight, Prowess, Resolve, or Playbooks. When taking the Train
Downtime Activity in the chosen category take 2XP instead of 1.
´üČ Training Course: Choose a type of Fire Team. All your Cohorts are that type in
addition to their normal type. Now thereÔÇÖs never a shortage of pilots.
´üČ Transmitter Array: -1 Stress cost for all digital powers and app usage. This effect
applies to the entire Squad, everywhere. You donÔÇÖt have to be at the array to
benefit from it.
´üČ Trophies Room: You get +1 Rep per mission. Word of your accolades, earned or
ÔÇťcollected,ÔÇŁ gets around, and your boldness boosts your Rep in the military.
´üČ Tunnels: +1d to Prowl rolls on-site. These hidden passages allow you to move
around unseen.
´üČ Warehouses: You get +1d to acquire asset rolls. You have space to hold all the
131


===== P├üGINA 132 =====

various spoils you end up with after your battles. It can be useful on its own or for
barter when you need it.
´üČ Workshop: The FOB has a space filled with tools, materials, and a database such
that the Long Term Project, Salvage, and Fix Downtime Activities can be worked on
without leaving the FOB.
HEART
Heart is an abstraction of the support and control the Squad has in the areas they administer
and operate in. This provides stability to the squad's Rep meaning that fewer Rep points are
required to increase the squad's hold and Tier. For each point of Heart, the Squad requires
one fewer point of Rep to develop, up to a maximum of 6 points of Heart. So if the Squad
has 3 Heart, only 9 points of Rep are required. Additionally when the squad's Rep resets to
zero upon development the Heart does not reset allowing for quicker development in the
future. Heart is gained by acquiring the Public Works Squad Upgrade.
COHORTS
A Cohort is a fire team (a group of agents) or a specialist (an especially skilled agent) that
works for the Squad and is directed by the pilots. Acquiring a new Cohort costs 2 Squad
upgrades.
Creating a Cohort:
1. Choose to make a Fire Team (Fire teams have Quality and scale equal to the squadÔÇÖs
Tier.) or Specialist (Specialists have Quality equal to the squadÔÇÖs Tier+1 and scale of 0).
2. Choose your CohortÔÇÖs expertise.
ÔŚő Fire teams can be Adepts (Academics, scientists, mechanics, etc.), Rooks
(spies, con artists, socialites, etc.), Rovers (drivers, astronauts, urban
spelunkers, etc.), Skulks (thieves, scouts, infiltration, etc.), or Toughs
(killers, bouncers, warriors, etc.).
ÔŚő Specialists can be any type of expert. Doctor, assassin, chemist, sniper,
and navigator are all acceptable but far from the only options.
3. Choose 1 or 2 Edges for the Cohort from the following:
ÔŚő Fearsome (terrifying in aspect and notoriety)
ÔŚő Independent (able to make good decisions and take action without direct
orders)
ÔŚő Loyal (can't be bribed or turned against the squad)
132


===== P├üGINA 133 =====

ÔŚő Tenacious (won't be deterred from a task)
4. Choose as many Flaws for the Cohort as it has Edges from the following:
ÔŚő Brutal (excessively violent and cruel)
ÔŚő Eager (will act without orders for ÔÇťthe squadÔÇÖs best interests)
ÔŚő Principled (has an ethic or value it won't betray)
ÔŚő Obligation (not always available due to other responsibilities, chronic
illness, etc.)
ÔŚő Wild (drunken, debauchery, and loud mouthed)
An additional expertise can be added to a Cohort by spending 2 Squad upgrades. A Squad
can have a maximum of 2 types of expertise. A Cohort will have items appropriate to its
expertise and Quality.
When a Cohort is sent to achieve a goal covered by its expertise it rolls its Quality to
determine the outcome. If the action is outside its expertise it counts as having a Quality of
zero. If a pilot directs the Cohort with orders, roll Command. If a pilot participates alongside
the Cohort, they make an Action Roll with the CohortÔÇÖs scale and Quality affecting the
Position and Effect.
If a Cohort suffers Harm, its Harm level increases from 1 to 4 in the following manner.
1. Weakened: the Cohort has reduced Effect.
2. Impaired: the Cohort has reduced Quality (-1d)
3. Broken: the Cohort cannot act until it recovers.
4. Dead: the Cohort is destroyed.
If a CohortÔÇÖs environment is suitable for healing, it removes a level of Harm during a
Downtime phase. A pilot can help them Recover by spending a Downtime action, which
heals the Cohort an additional level of Harm.
Only Rovers and Specialists with an appropriate expertise start with vehicles. They
have vehicles that suit their expertise and the squadÔÇÖs Playbook. For access to a different
type of vehicle, or to give a vehicle to a Cohort that doesnÔÇÖt start with one, a pilot should
Acquire an Asset during Downtime or the Squad should get a second level Motor Pool.
Cohort vehicles have Load equal to their Tier if that becomes relevant.
A Cohort can be reformed if destroyed. The Squad must spend Personnel points
equal to the squad's Tier + 2 to restore it, and also spend two Downtime Activities finding
new fire team members or a new specialist.
If the Squad mistreats a Cohort (physical or emotional violence, needlessly
133


===== P├üGINA 134 =====

dangerous tasks, forcing them to fight while wounded, etc.) they may retaliate if it is
narratively appropriate and suits the tone of your game. Likely they won't retaliate after a
singular instance of mistreatment, but a second occurrence (and certainly a third) may have
them looking to make a change.
If you find it useful, consider making a 4-Tick Clock to represent the retaliation that
the Cohort will enact. Add 1 or 2 Ticks (depending on severity) each time a Pilot mistreats a
Cohort. For each tick added the Cohort should retaliate in increasingly dramatic fashion.
Here are some examples of ways that a Cohort could retaliate:
´üČ Grumbling: The Cohort complains about the mistreatment to other NPCs of similar
social status. For Fire Teams this may be completely internal as the Fire Team's
members complain to each other.
´üČ "A word, sir": The Cohort speaks candidly about the mistreatment to someone in a
position of authority. This may be a Pilot who has not mistreated them, but may also
be the Squad's Direct Superior.
´üČ Work To Rule: The Cohort does the bare minimum required of them. Maybe they
don't work overtime to make sure the Pilots' Vehicles are fixed, or they refuse orders
that don't make sense to them.
´üČ Strike: The Cohort refuses to work until their demands are met. What those
demands are depends on the nature of the mistreatment they have faced.
´üČ Fragging: When the opportunity presents itself, the Cohort will put those who have
mistreated them in danger. This may be "accidental" friendly fire, not defending
against enemy attacks, or an off duty beating.
´üČ Betrayal: If the mistreatment has gotten severe enough, The Cohort will lose faith in
the Squad and start working for someone else. This may be covert (such as sneaking
away at night or feeding the enemy intel) or dramatic (an assassination attempt or
ambush with enemy assistance). Either way, the Cohort will be removed as an Asset.
Mending the relationship with a mistreated Cohort is not fixed in a single day. It will require a
Long Term Project, and the more aggrieved the Cohort is, the more Ticks the project will
have. Completing the project should involve dealing with the demands of the Cohort, and
addressing the mistreatment. Or you could just cycle out all the staff for fresh faces who
don't know about the abuse they're about to encounter.
If the retaliation of the Cohort becomes too much for the Squad to deal with (or the
Squad just doesn't like a Cohort), they can dismiss the Cohort. This removes them from the
Squad sheet, and thus can no longer be called upon for assistance. Depending on how
unhappy the Cohort is when it's dismissed, and the manner of their dismissal, they may
simply disappear into the world or they might hold a grudge and return to make the Pilots
suffer.
134


===== P├üGINA 135 =====

TIER
Every notable Squad (including the playersÔÇÖ squad) has a Tier that indicates the size,
renown, and power of that squad. The most powerful squads are Tier V and Tier VI. The
playersÔÇÖ Squad starts at Tier 0 with strong hold (represented by an "S" after their Tier value).
The squad's Tier is rolled when acquiring an asset, and for fortune rolls where success is
primarily based on the squad's resources and fame. The Quality of a squad's items is
determined by Tier, and so is the Quality and scale of the squad's fire teams. This can help
guide the narrative with how well made a squad's gear is and how many people are brought
to bear when a fire team is deployed.
When a Fire Team is deployed their scale by Tier:
´üČ Tier V: Massive (roughly 80 people)
´üČ Tier IV: Huge (roughly 40 people)
´üČ Tier III: Large (roughly 20 people)
´üČ Tier II: Medium (roughly 10 people)
´üČ Tier I: Small (roughly 5 people)
´üČ Tier 0: 1 or 2 people
SQUAD DEVELOPMENT
To move up the ranks and develop your squad, you need Rep. Rep is a measure
of clout and renown. When you accrue enough Rep, Factions and other squads take you
more seriously and you attract the support needed to develop and grow.
You need 12 Rep to fill the Rep tracker on your Squad sheet. When you fill the
tracker, do one of the following:
´üČ If your hold is weak (represented by a "W" after their Tier value), it becomes strong.
Reset your Rep to zero.
´üČ If your hold is strong, you can pay to increase your Squad Tier by one. This costs
an amount of each Supply Point type equal to the squad's new Tier times 4. For
example if a Squad is increasing to Tier II it must spend 8 Personnel, and 8
Materiel. As long as your Rep tracker is full, you donÔÇÖt earn new Rep (12 is the
max). Once you pay and increase your Tier, reset your Rep to zero and reduce
your hold to weak.
When your Tier increases the Squad experiences several changes.
´üČ All of the squad's items now count as a Tier higher when their Quality comes into
135


===== P├üGINA 136 =====

play.
´üČ When the squad's Tier is used for a Fortune Roll where its power and notoriety are
paramount a number of dice equal to the Tier is rolled.
´üČ The scale and Quality of the squad's fire teams increases to the new Tier.
FACTION GOALS
A FactionÔÇÖs goal is the current strategic objective that they are trying to fulfill on their path of
dominance in The War. The players and GM discuss which Faction goal makes sense for
their patron Faction to have at the start of the game. Things to consider in this decision are
the amount of politics, combat, and brutality everyone wants, as well as themes they might
want to explore.
Each goal is represented by a 4 Tick Clock. Squads add Ticks by taking actions
during missions that work towards the goal, however only a single tick is added to the Clock
at the end of the Mission. No matter how hard or how often the Squad works towards the
Faction Goal, it is too big to get substantial progress during a single mission.
When the Clock fills all squads patronized by the Faction receive specialist training
giving them a unique benefit. The players and GM then consider the current situation of The
War and select a new and different goal as each goal can only be completed once.
The list of goals for a Faction to have follows:
´üČ Assault the Foe: Soften up a specific enemy held region in preparation for
capture. This can be done by brazenly attacking that region, cutting that area off
from reinforcements, gaining intel about the districtÔÇÖs weak points, etc.
ÔŚő Benefit: Vengeful. Your squadÔÇÖs righteous anger empowers their actions.
When making an Action Roll against a Squad that employs any playerÔÇÖs
Rival, take improved Effect.
´üČ Divided They Fall: Manipulate the enemyÔÇÖs plans. This can be done by planting
false orders and intelligence, disrupting communications, pitting enemies against
each other, etc.
ÔŚő Benefit: 4D Chess. You and your FactionÔÇÖs agents synergize to pull off
incredible feats of manipulation. Once per mission a pilot can manipulate an
active Clock. Describe how you manipulated the situation to your liking. The
pilot may spend up to 3 Stress to move that many ticks into any other
Clocks. If the Clock being emptied has a negative outcome when filled, then
the ticks must be transferred only to Clocks that also have a negative
136


===== P├üGINA 137 =====

outcome. If the Clock being emptied has a positive outcome when filled,
then the ticks must be transferred only to Clocks that also have a positive
outcome.
´üČ Golden Streets: Improve the Supply situation of the patron Faction. This can be
done by improving the Wealth rating of Regions, giving supplies to your patron
Faction, refusing Supply rolls from your patron, etc.
ÔŚő Benefit: Beggars Can Be Choosers. The Squad knows how to beg,
barter, and steal for more supplies when they really want to. If each pilot
that participated in the mission spends 1 Stress the missionÔÇÖs Supply roll is
rolled again and the Squad gets the higher result. This can be chosen after
the initial roll is made. This does not apply to the BureaucratÔÇÖs Cook The
Books ability.
´üČ Hearts and Minds: Change the popular opinion of a Faction in a manner that
benefits your patron Faction. This can be done by protecting the populace from
marauders in your patronÔÇÖs name, publicizing the corruption of an enemy Faction,
shifting musical tastes in support of your patron, etc.
ÔŚő Benefit: Recruitment Drive. The people have seen the glory of your
Faction and want to be a part of it. Cohorts now cost 1 Squad upgrade
instead of 2, as the populace flock to recruitment centers.
´üČ Hostile Takeover: Deny the enemy supplies. This can be done by blockading
imports, destroying infrastructure, turning enemy Supply sources to working for
your patron Faction, etc.
ÔŚő Benefit: Level The Playing Field. YouÔÇÖve worked hard to deny the enemy
what it needs to continue The War, and your efforts have begun to wear
down their squads. Choose a Faction. All of the squads belonging to that
Faction permanently lose 1 hold going from Strong to Weak at their current
Tier, or Weak to Strong but at a lower Tier (Weak Tier 1 squads become
strong Tier zero squads).
´üČ Intelligence Coup: Steal valuable information from the enemy. This can be done
by acquiring VIPs, retrieving actionable intel, stealing technological advances, etc.
ÔŚő Benefit: Big Brother. Between advances in technology and an extensive
spy network you can get the answers you want. Once per session a pilot
may spend 2 Stress to ask the GM a question. The GM must answer
honestly. This does not provide improved Effect, improved Position, or
additional dice.
137


===== P├üGINA 138 =====

´üČ Manufacture Heroes: Act against a specific Squad at least 2 Tiers higher than the
playersÔÇÖ squad. This can be done by attacking regions controlled by that squad,
denying that Squad mission objectives, luring that Squad into acting irrationally,
etc.
ÔŚő Benefit: Poster Child. Now that youÔÇÖre heroes, your Faction needs to keep
you alive without removing you from the action. A pilot can push themself
for only 1 Stress a number of times per session equal to their squadÔÇÖs Tier
(minimum 1) by revealing how another Squad belonging to their patron
Faction assisted them.
´üČ Secure the Borders: Take proactive measures to protect the patron Faction. This
can be done by removing enemy agents acting within the patron Faction,
weakening neighbouring regions, constructing defenses, etc.
ÔŚő Benefit: Nano Laminate Armor. Molecule thin layers of ceramic-alloy
composite are electro magnetically bonded to each other to create armor
that is half the weight of standard vehicle armor but maintains the same
durability. Each vehicle can have one NLA declared. Functions as normal
armor but is Load 1.
When a FactionÔÇÖs goal is fulfilled every Squad that currently has it as their patron gains the
appropriate benefit. When a Faction other than the pilotsÔÇÖ patron completes a goal, describe
to the players the sweeping changes they hear about that are caused by the goalÔÇÖs
completion. Look to the goalÔÇÖs benefit for inspiration as to the changes that occur.
Remember that the fictional Positioning of the game alters the Position and Effect of player
rolls.
SUPPLY POINTS
A Squad canÔÇÖt function if it doesnÔÇÖt have the supplies it needs. These could be boots,
ammunition, bandages, armor plating, intel, targeting computers, or even a few soccer balls
to kick around. All of the things your Squad needs will be abstracted into the catch all term
Supply Points.
Your Squad will get Supply Points, or one of its subtypes, through mission rewards,
the salvage Downtime action, or another fictionally appropriate means. However, Supply
Points canÔÇÖt be used themselves; they must be converted to a subtype at the start of
Downtime Activities requiring no action to do so. Each type of Supply Point has its own uses,
but all of them are also used in increasing the squadÔÇÖs Tier (see Squad Development). The
different subtypes are Materiel and Personnel.
138


===== P├üGINA 139 =====

A Squad can only have 4 of each Supply Point handy in its FOB; however, with the
Storage upgrade this amount can be increased to 8 and then 16. The squadÔÇÖs excess Supply
Points must be spent or they are taken by your superiors and disappear.
´üČ 1 Supply Point is equivalent to a weekÔÇÖs pay for a blue collar worker. Possibly a
weekÔÇÖs worth of rationed material on the black market.
´üČ 2 Supply Points is the weekly income of a small business. A full tailored outfit, a
fine weapon, or an exquisite luxury item.
´üČ 4 Supply Points is that blue collar workerÔÇÖs monthly income. Possibly the full cost a
of an older used vehicle.
´üČ 6 Supply Points might be high end jewellery, or a briefcase full of contraband.
´üČ 8 Supply Points is a strong monthly profit for a small business, or a rare luxury
commodity.
´üČ 10 Supply Points is the value of a significant asset such as a luxury vehicle or small
piece of property.
MATERIEL
Represents everything necessary to keep a squadÔÇÖs vehicles running, if not operating at
optimal levels. Materiel is used to:
´üČ Take an additional Acquire Asset, Enhance, Fix, Manufacture, Salvage, or Upkeep
Downtime Activity by spending 1 Materiel.
´üČ Add +1d to an Acquire Asset, Fix, Manufacture, or Salvage Downtime Activity, or
increase the result 1 level.
´üČ Change vehicle Load slots to undeclared during Downtime (this does not expend
an activity).
´üČ Acquire new vehicles.
´üČ Take the Upkeep Downtime Activity, add +1d to the Upkeep activity, or increase the
result 1 point.
´üČ Increase the squadÔÇÖs Tier (see Squad Development section).
´üČ Avoid certain Squad Entanglements.
´üČ Purchase Personnel by spending 2 Materiel for 1 Personnel (buying on the black
market), or by spending 1 Materiel for 1 Personnel during the Collect Downtime
Activity (forcibly buying from locals).
139


===== P├üGINA 140 =====

PERSONNEL
Represents various forms of labour and supplies that keep the pilots fit and equipped to
complete missions. Personnel is used to:
´üČ Take an additional Collect, Cut Loose, Long-Term Project, Recover, Schmooze, or
Train Downtime Activity by spending 1 Personnel.
´üČ Replace destroyed Cohorts. The cost is equal to the squadÔÇÖs Tier+2 and two
Downtime Activities.
´üČ Have Flashbacks that utilize allied squads or Cohorts. Spend 1 Personnel in place
of 1 Stress. The FlashbackÔÇÖs cost can be paid entirely in Personnel, stres s, or a
mix of both.
´üČ Add +1d to a Collect, Cut Loose, Long-Term Project, Recover, or Schmooze
Downtime Activity, or increase the result 1 level.
´üČ Have a Flashback to gather information. Spend 1 Personnel in place of 1 Stress.
The Flashback cost can be paid entirely in Personnel, entirely in Stress, or in a mix
of both.
´üČ Add +1d to a gather information roll.
´üČ Increase the squadÔÇÖs Tier (see Squad Development section)
´üČ Avoid certain Squad Entanglements.
´üČ Purchase Materiel by spending 2 Personnel for 1 Materiel (buying on the black
market), or by spending 1 Personnel for 1 Materiel during the Collect Downtime
Activity (forcibly buying from locals).
If the fiction indicates that the Squad wouldnÔÇÖt have access to their Supply Points during
Downtime (because their FOB is lost, they are on an extended campaign behind enemy
lines, they are doing back to back missions without a chance to resupply, etc.) then they can
not be used. Fixing the problem in the fiction will restore access to the squadÔÇÖs Supply
Points.
WHAT ABOUT MONEY?
All Factions now use electronic currency organized by centralized servers, and this works
well for most people living under them. The term cash has stuck around to mean assets that
might be exchanged for goods or services but which arenÔÇÖt easily tracked by one of the
Factions.
A pilot or squadÔÇÖs day to day expenditures arenÔÇÖt tracked by the players. If a pilot
wants to spend a small amount to achieve a small goal (have nice clothes, bribe a
140


===== P├üGINA 141 =====

bureaucrat, have specific furniture) use the Squad's Tier for a fortune roll. If a large purchase
is necessary Personnel or Materiel will need to be used.
MISSION COMPLETED
When the Squad completes a mission follow this process:
1. Resolve the squadÔÇÖs REWARD. TheyÔÇÖll get Supply Points and Rep.
2. Update the squadÔÇÖs TRUST. TheyÔÇÖll be more and less liked by other squads and their
Factions.
3. Determine the ENTANGLEMENTS that affect the squad. Life is unfair and harsh.
4. Play through the Downtime ACTIVITIES. The Squad has some time to tend to their
needs.
REWARD
To resolve the squadÔÇÖs Reward follow this procedure.
1. Take a Supply Roll from the Employer Faction, unless the mission was Independent.
Roll dice equal to the Target's Tier + Employer Faction Status, to a minimum of
zero (roll 2d and take the lowest). Gain Supply Points equal to the highest die. If a
crit is rolled take 9 Supply Points.
2. Take your Employer Faction's Supply roll bonus.
ÔŚő Autocracy: +1 Materiel, +1 Trust with the Employer
ÔŚő Corporatocracy: +2 Materiel
ÔŚő Democracy: +1 Personnel, +1 Materiel
ÔŚő Independent: +2 Rep
ÔŚő Oligarchy: +1 Trust with the Employer, +1 Personnel
ÔŚő Theocracy: +2 Personnel
3. Assign the Supply Points as Materiel, or Personnel. Any Supply Points beyond the
squadÔÇÖs maximum storage capacity must be used by the end of the next Downtime
phase or they are wasted.
4. Each pilot checks to see if they did something that furthers their Drive. If they did,
add 1 tick to a Drive clock.
5. Every pilot can take a free Upkeep Downtime Activity, but must still spend the
required Materiel.
141


===== P├üGINA 142 =====

6. If the mission supports the Patron Faction's goal add a Tick to the goal's Clock. If
the Clock is filled, all squads patronized by the Faction gain a benefit, then choose
a new goal for the Faction.
7. The Squad earns 2 Rep. If the target of the mission was higher Tier than the squad,
take +1 Rep per Tier higher. If the target Squad was lower Tier, take -1 Rep per
Tier lower (minimum zero). If the mission was completely hidden, take zero Rep
instead of the above.
When you complete a mission you get several benefits.
First, you get free resupply from the Faction you worked for, with the exception of
Independent missions, which is the Supply Roll. Roll a number of dice equal to your Patron
Faction Status + the Squad that was targeted by the missionÔÇÖs Tier, to a minimum of 0 (roll
2d and take the lowest in this case). Select the highest result and gain that many Supply
Points; you never know what HQ can spare. If two or more 6s are rolled take 9 Supply Points
instead of 6.
Each Faction provides additional Supply Point bonuses to the squad:
´üČ Autocracy: +1 Materiel, +1 Trust with the Employer
´üČ Corporatocracy: +2 Materiel
´üČ Democracy: +1 Personnel, +1 Materiel
´üČ Independent: +2 Rep without a Supply roll
´üČ Oligarchy: +1 Trust with the Employer, +1 Personnel
´üČ Theocracy: +2 Personnel
Independent missions don't have a hiring Faction, and don't generate a free Supply roll
unless the GM decides that they do. The same applies for squads that have a patron Faction
but have completed a mission that was not assigned to them by their patron. Missions from
non-patron Factions generate a Supply roll if the GM decides that they do.
After a Supply roll the generated points must be assigned as Materiel, or Personnel
before the next mission.
Second each successful mission gives every involved pilot the opportunity to check if they
furthered their Drive. If they did, they can add 1 tick to a Drive clock.
Third if the mission supports the squad's patron FactionÔÇÖs current goal then add a Tick to the
142


===== P├üGINA 143 =====

goalÔÇÖs Clock. If the Clock is filled, the Faction and all squads it controls gain the benefit of the
goalÔÇÖs reward. Then choose a new goal for the patron Faction.
Lastly, the Squad earns 2 Rep for the mission. If the target Squad of the mission was higher
Tier than you, take +1 Rep per Tier higher. If the target of the mission was lower Tier, you get
-1 Rep per Tier lower (minimum zero). If you keep the operation completely quiet so no one
knows about it, you earn zero rep. Mark the Rep on the Rep tracker on the Squad sheet.
TRUST AND STATUS
To update the squadÔÇÖs Trust and Statuses follow this procedure.
1. If a Squad benefited from the mission consider giving +1 to that squad's Status.
2. If a Squad was Harmed by the mission consider giving -1 or -2 to that squad's
Status depending on how bad the damage was.
3. For every Squad Status point above or below zero, add a descriptor that expresses
how that Squad views the players' squad.
4. Adjust the trust of the Faction targeted by the mission.
ÔŚő Important infrastructure damaged. -2 Trust
ÔŚő A VIP was killed. -2 Trust
ÔŚő Civilians died. -1 Trust
ÔŚő Their corruption was exposed to their citizens. -2 Trust
ÔŚő At least one of their squads took casualties. -1 Trust
ÔŚő The mission's target was high profile or well connected. -1 Trust
ÔŚő The Faction was attacked in a region they control. -1 Trust
ÔŚő You have Vendetta with one of their squads at the start of the mission. That
Squad does not have to be involved in the mission. -1 Trust
5. Adjust the trust of the Faction that employed the Squad for the mission.
ÔŚő Civilians died. -1 Trust
ÔŚő The ROE was broken. -2 Trust
ÔŚő Important infrastructure damaged that was not the mission's target. -2 Trust
ÔŚő A Squad that was not the mission's Target and belongs to the Employer was
Harmed. -2 Trust
ÔŚő The mission was successful. +Trust equal to double the Target's Tier,
minimum 1.
ÔŚő At least one secondary objective was completed. +2 Trust
143


===== P├üGINA 144 =====

ÔŚő You have Vendetta with one of their squads at the start of the mission. That
Squad does not have to be involved in the mission. -1 Trust
6. Adjust the trust of the squad's patron Faction.
ÔŚő Another Faction was aided. -1 Trust
ÔŚő The Patron's interests were Harmed. -2 Trust
7. Adjust Faction statuses.
ÔŚő When Trust reaches 9 that Faction's Status gets +1, Trust rolls over to 0,
and any remaining Trust is then added.
ÔŚő When Trust reaches zero that Faction's Status gets -1, Trust rolls over to 9,
and any remaining Trust is then subtracted.
STATUS
The playersÔÇÖ Squad has a status rating with every other Squad and every Faction that
indicates how much they like or hate them. Status can range from -3 (Hated) to +3 (Loved),
with zero (neutral) being the default rating. If the rating is something other than a zero it is
tracked on the Faction and Squad Sheet.
STATUS LEVELS
´üČ +3: Allies. Groups with this rating will help the Squad even if it goes against their
best interests, and they expect the same in return.
´üČ +2: Friendly. Groups with this rating will help the Squad if it doesnÔÇÖt create serious
problems for them, and they expect the same in return.
´üČ +1: Helpful. Groups with this rating will help the Squad if it doesnÔÇÖt cost them
anything, and they expect the same in return.
´üČ 0: Neutral.
´üČ -1: Interfering. Groups with this rating will look for opportunities to cause the
Squad trouble (or profit from its misfortune) as long as it doesnÔÇÖt cost them
anything, and they expect the same behaviour in return.
´üČ -2: Hostile. Groups with this rating actively seek chances to Harm the Squad so
long as it doesnÔÇÖt create major problems for them. They expect similar retaliation
and take precautions against the squad.
´üČ -3: Vendetta. Groups with this rating work to Harm the Squad even if it is against
their best interests. They expect the Squad to do likewise and will take precautions
against them. When the Squad has a vendetta with any number of groups, they will
144


===== P├üGINA 145 =====

suffer additional Trust losses, temporarily lose 1 hold (possibly lowering their Tier
by 1 until the vendetta ends), and pilots take one fewer Downtime Activity. If the
players have multiple Vendettas, only apply the penalty from one at a time. The
vendetta will end if the enemy is destroyed or a mutual agreement to establish a
new status level is negotiated.
SQUAD STATUS
After a mission is completed consider the squads that were involved in the mission.
If a Squad benefited from the mission the players should discuss if that was enough to
increase their Status with them. Think about giving +1 to that Status.
If a Squad was Harmed (physically, socially, financially, etc.) by the mission maybe
their Status with the pilots will worsen. Consider giving -1 or - 2 to the Status depending on
how harsh their damage was. Remember that it's easier to ruin a Status than to improve
one.
NPC squads that have a positive Status will have different expectations of the pilots
based on their Tier. If the NPC Squad has a higher Tier theyÔÇÖll expect deference from the
pilots, and may be willing to provide protection. An equal Tier Squad will request that the
pilots provide support, both on and off the battlefield, and they expect requests of a similar
nature. Lower Tier squads will want the protection of the pilots, but may have little concept of
how they can help the pilots.
For every Squad status point above or below 0 the players will also assign a word
that describes how that Squad views the playersÔÇÖ squad. This helps the GM characterize
NPCs from that Squad while also giving players an idea of what to expect when interacting
with them. Try to pick descriptors that suit the nature of the squad. For example a theocratic
Squad might have ÔÇťfaithful,ÔÇŁ an autocratic Squad ÔÇťloyal,ÔÇŁ a democratic Squad ÔÇťpatriotic,ÔÇŁ and
a corporatocratic Squad ÔÇťinvested.ÔÇŁ
EXAMPLE SQUAD STATUS DESCRIPTORS
´üČ Marketable ´üČ Effective
´üČ Tidy ´üČ Cheap
´üČ Amoral ´üČ Backpfeifengesicht
´üČ Soft ´üČ Aggravating
´üČ Honorless ´üČ Zealetous
´üČ Strained ´üČ Mighty
145


===== P├üGINA 146 =====

FACTION RELATIONSHIP
A FactionÔÇÖs Relationship only changes after Trust has filled up or been sufficiently reduced
representing that it's harder to make an impression on the larger organization, but when you
get a FactionÔÇÖs attention they can bring the weight of multiple squads on to you. Even a
patron Faction will turn on a Squad it governs if that Squad becomes unruly enough. So kiss
up to the boss, strike out on your own, or frame others for your misdeeds.
Additionally the way that the average citizen of a Faction reacts to the Squad and its pilots is
determined by the FactionÔÇÖs Relationship with the squad. If the Relationship is positive the
pilots may be seen as a good influence on the course of The War, and if itÔÇÖs strong enough
possible been seen as heroes. A negative Relationship will make citizens wary of the squad,
or possibly form a violent mob if the status is low enough.
Aside from the fictional Positioning of how the Faction and its citizens relate to the squad,
Faction status affects Supply Rolls and Entanglements. The more positive a Relationship the
Squad has with its patron Faction the more likely they are to receive additional supplies from
their end of mission Supply roll, and the types of entanglements encountered will be less
damaging. Negative Relationships with any Faction will increase the severity of
entanglements.
TRUST
The Relationship between your Squad and the huge Factions operating squads in the game
is determined by Trust. Squad Statuses are handled elsewhere.
If the mission was kept completely quiet and the results canÔÇÖt be traced back to your squad,
skip Trust adjustments for the Target. Instead lose only 1 Trust with them as rumors filter
back to them. After a mission the Faction whose Squad was targeted by the mission loses
Trust with your Squad if:
´üČ there was damage to important infrastructure they wanted intact. (-2 Trust)
´üČ one of their VIPs was killed. (-2 Trust)
´üČ there were civilian deaths. (-1 Trust)
´üČ their own skulduggery was exposed to the citizenry. (-2 Trust)
´üČ one of their squads sustained casualties. (-1 Trust)
´üČ the target was high profile or well connected. (-1 Trust)
´üČ they were hit in a region they controlled. (-1 Trust)
´üČ you have a Vendetta with one of their squads at the start of the mission.
That Squad does not have to be involved in the mission. (-1 Trust)
146


===== P├üGINA 147 =====

The trust with your employer Faction also changes. The trust is adjusted if:
´üČ There were civilian deaths. (-1 Trust)
´üČ The missionÔÇÖs Rules of Engagement, ROE, were broken. (-2 Trust)
´üČ There was damage to important infrastructure that was not the missionÔÇÖs
target. (-2 Trust)
´üČ The Squad caused damage or injury to a Squad belonging to the employer
that was not the missionÔÇÖs target. (-2 Trust)
´üČ The mission was completed successfully (+Trust equal to double targetÔÇÖs
Tier, minimum 1)
´üČ At least one secondary objective was completed (+2 Trust)
´üČ you have a Vendetta with one of their squads at the start of the mission.
That Squad does not have to be involved in the mission. (-1 Trust)
Additionally the trust with your patron changes after a mission as well. If they were the
Faction you were working for, the following trust modifiers are applied in addition to the
employer trust.
´üČ You aided another Faction (-1 Trust)
´üČ You Harmed your patron FactionÔÇÖs interests (-2 Trust)
When your trust reaches 9 your Status with that Faction goes up by 1 and the Trust rolls
over to 1, and any remaining Trust is then added. If Trust reaches 0 your Status with that
Faction goes down by 1 and the Trust rolls over to 8, and any remaining Trust is then
subtracted.
ENTANGLEMENTS
Entanglements exist because the world is unfair, the brass do things that seem random and
incompetent, and your friends are vulnerable simply because they know you.
After Reward and Trust are determined, the GM generates an Entanglement for the Squad
using the charts below. Look at the Faction that the Squad has targeted during the mission
to determine the Entanglements table that will be used. If the last mission targeted an
Independent squad, use that squadÔÇÖs status. If the Relationship is -3 roll on table A. If itÔÇÖs -2
or -1 roll on table B. If itÔÇÖs 0 or higher roll on table C. Then roll a number of dice equal to 3
minus the squad's Relationship level with their Patron Faction, or the Faction with the
highest Relationship if they lack a patron, and take the highest result. If the total is 0 or
147


===== P├üGINA 148 =====

higher roll 2d and take the lower result.
The Squad can make use of a Region's criminal element if they choose to spend Personnel
equal to the RegionÔÇÖs Crime rating before the Entanglement is rolled. If they do so they can
adjust the result of the Entanglement by up to the Personnel spent. They bribe the local
underworld, and it distracts attention off the squad. Unfortunately "legitimate" authorities
aren't fond of this, so the Squad will lose Trust with their Patron Faction equal to the
Personnel spent. If they are Independent, they lose Trust with the Faction that controls that
Region.
TABLE A
1. Flipped OR roll on Table B: A Rival Squad arranges for one of your contacts,
sponsors, clients, or a group of your customers to switch allegiances due to the attention
on you. TheyÔÇÖre loyal to another Faction now.
2. Missing Supplies: Your supplier didnÔÇÖt give you the supplies you were supposed to
get, citing rerouted logistics. Lose 3 Supply points of any type, or try to browbeat logistics
into giving you what you deserve and make a Fortune roll (1-3: -2 Trust with the Faction
that last gave the Squad a Supply Roll, 4/5: -1 Trust instead, 6: no Trust lost) to see if they
squeal.
3. Toxic Gear: Scuttlebutt is that some of the gear youÔÇÖve been issued is unhealthy to be
around. Choose to spend 1 Personnel for +1d or donÔÇÖt, but either way make a Fortune Roll
using the squadÔÇÖs Tier (1-3: Everyone takes Level 1 Harm which can be resisted as
normal, 4/5: Everyone spend 1 Materiel point to trade it away or take 2 Stress, 6: ItÔÇÖs not
toxic).
4. Desperate Civilians: A group of civilians mob the Squad demanding supplies. Give
them 4 Supply Points, or make a Fortune Roll (1-3: Everyone takes two Level 1 Harms,
4/5: lose 2 Supply points) to see how bad things get.
5. SCRAMBLE!: A Squad you have a negative Status with makes a move against you (or
a friend, contact, or other ally). The attack comes suddenly and with little warning; prepare
to fight OR scatter and return after the attackers have done their damage.
If you prepare to fight, immediately start a mission where the Squad's FOB is under attack.
Take into consideration the Hidden, Secure, and Quarters FOB upgrades for the
Engagement Roll. This mission cancels the previous missionÔÇÖs Downtime phase, and upon
completion follows the normal mission completed process, including Entanglements.
If you scatter, lose 2 Squad upgrades as the attackers destroy large sections of your
FOB.
148


===== P├üGINA 149 =====

6. Show of Force: A Faction with whom you have a negative status has decided you
need to be dealt with. Give them 1 Upgrade or gain Vendetta (drop to -3 status) with 2 of
their Squads that you currently do not have Vendetta with. If you have no Upgrades, lose 1
Hold instead.
TABLE B
1. AI Attention OR roll on Table C: An AI takes notice of your squad's actions and offers
to cut a sinister deal with the squad. Accept the bargain, hide until it loses interest (forfeit 3
Rep), or deal with it another way.
2. Fire Team Trouble: One of your fire teams (or other Cohorts) causes trouble due to
their flaw(s). You can lose face (forfeit Rep equal to your Tier+1), make an example of one
of the fire team, or face reprisals from the wronged party.
3. Lowest Bidder: Turns out your SquadÔÇÖs gear was manufactured by the lowest bidder.
All vehicles immediately suffer a level 2 Damage ÔÇťBustedÔÇŁ and level 1 Damage ÔÇťLow On
AmmoÔÇŁ (each of which can be resisted separately), or each pilot can pay 1 Materiel to get
the good stuff through back channels.
4. Rivals: A Squad with Status zero throws their weight around. They threaten you, a
friend, a contact, or other ally. Forfeit (1 Rep or 1 Personnel) per Tier of the Rival, or stand
up to them and lose 1 Status with them.
5. Debriefing: One of your Squad is questioned by your superiors. One of the pilots or a
Cohort is taken in to be grilled. Make a Fortune Roll to see how well they resist the
pressure (1-3: level 2 Harm, which can be resisted by pilots as normal, 4/5: -2 Trust) or
bribe the grunts grabbing the person with 1 Personnel.
6. Requisition: a Cohort, Squad upgrade, or acquired asset is requisitioned by another
squad. Give up the item (take +2 Trust with that squad's patron Faction), bribe the caller
with Personnel equal to your Tier +3, try to hide the object or fight back and lose 1 Status
with that Squad AND their Faction. If you donÔÇÖt have any Cohorts, upgrades, or assets you
must select an option other than giving up the item as the caller doesnÔÇÖt believe you donÔÇÖt
have it.
TABLE C
1. New Recruit: Someone the Squad wants safe at home is assigned to them as a new
recruit. Describe who this person is and the details of their bond with the squad. Gain a
Specialist with Loyal and Eager. Their Quality is equal to the squad's Tier -1 (minimum 0).
2. Civil Unrest: spend Supply Points equal to the number of FOB Squad Upgrades you
149


===== P├üGINA 150 =====

have, make a Fortune Roll using your Tier to put it down (1-3: all pilots take level 1 Harm
ÔÇťRoughed UpÔÇŁ; 4/5: Cohorts and Personnel points canÔÇÖt be used in the next downtime and
mission), or let it run its course (Regions your Patron controls lose 1 Wealth to a minimum
of 0).
3. Cooperation: a Squad with +3 Status asks for a favour. Agree to do it, or forfeit 1 Rep
per Tier of the friendly squad, or lose 1 Status with them. This favour must be completed
by the end of the next mission, and may take the form of a Long Term Project, mission
objective, or secondary objective. If you donÔÇÖt have a +3 Squad status, you avoid
entanglements right now.
4. Embedded Favourite: The Squad is burdened with an NPC that a superior is fond of
and believes needs first hand field experience. The NPC must accompany you on your
next mission and get out intact. If you refuse to take the NPC along take -2 trust with the
Faction pressuring you to break them in. If the NPC dies take -3 Trust, and if they are
injured take -1 Trust. The NPC is a temporary Specialist Cohort with Quality equal to the
squad's Tier -1.
5. Letter from home: One of the squadÔÇÖs pilots receives a personal message with bad
news. They must use a Downtime Activity to Cut Loose or suffer 3 Stress.
6. Brass-holes: Your superiors issue mission objectives that donÔÇÖt make sense to the
squad. The Squad takes -1d on their next engagement roll. Additionally roll 1d to
determine the tactic for the next mission (1: assault, 2: deception, 3: social, 4: transport, 5:
science, 6: stealth). If the Squad decides not to use that tactic, take -1 Status with the
Faction that assigned the mission, unless the mission is independent.
150