

===== PÁGINA 38 =====

THE PILOTS
INSERT PILOT CHAPTER ART HERE
38


===== PÁGINA 39 =====

Beam Saber is a game about pilots and their massive war machines. While the vehicles may
get a lot of attention, they are just dead metal without the pilot. An empty husk waiting to be
filled with potential. You are that potential. Pilots are people who will take a sliver of hope in a
desperate situation and use it as wedge to victory. Be the pilot, find the sliver.
PILOT CREATION
The directions that follow are useful for creating your pilot step by step; however, if you want
to randomly generate your pilot in part or in whole, jump to Appendix A for methods to do
that.
1. Choose a Playbook. This will guide your pilot's methods.
2. Who were you before The War stole from you? This is your History. Put 1 point into a
pilot or vehicle action that expresses it.
3. How has your pilot experienced the costs of war? This is your Tragedy.
4. What were you doing before you joined the Squad, but after your Tragedy? This is your
Opening. Put 1 point into a pilot or vehicle action that expresses it.
5. What do you hope to change in the world? This is your Drive.
6. Add the 3 starting action points from your chosen Playbook to your character
sheet.
7. Put 2 points split between any pilot and/or vehicle actions. Each action cannot
exceed 2 points. Note that when making your vehicle later you will have 3 more points
which can ONLY be used in vehicle actions.
8. Choose an ability from your Playbook.
9. Write your name, pronoun, call sign, and look.
10. Write the names of each of the other members of your Squad on your Connection
Sheet and put 1 Tick in their Connection Clock. Create 1 Belief you have about each
pilot, or choose an example Belief listed in any Playbook.
HISTORY, TRAGEDY, AND OPENING
The War has affected everyone, with the lucky only having rationing in their lives, but many
more have experienced some form of tragedy. The pilots are not solely tragic figures though;
they have a history before The War stole from them, and they find ways to live before they
join the Squad where the story opens on them.
When choosing your pilot’s History, Tragedy, and Opening, there’s no need to have it
39


===== PÁGINA 40 =====

fully fleshed out. Having just a single detail for each is enough because developing the
character through play and discovering who they are is part of the game. It also leaves room
to learn that other players’ characters are part of your past. If you DO have a lot of backstory
ideas that you are very happy with, keep them; just keep an open mind about including new
details as the game progresses.
HISTORY
A pilot’s History is who they were before their Tragedy. Generally, this is a fairly mundane
existence where The War is not something that fills their thoughts. Sure there’s rationing, the
neighbour’s kid got conscripted, and your second cousin is moving back in with their parents
after the space station they lived on got destroyed, but you can go most days without
thinking about things like that. So don’t worry about the tragedy looming in your future
because for now life is… normal.
When a pilot's History is expressed during play, they will get XP at the end of the
session.
EXAMPLE HISTORIES
 Academic: A university professor or student a researcher, a doctor, a journalist, or
some other person who furthers knowledge.
 Art: An architect, a sculptor, a writer, a composer, or some other person creating
art.
 Criminal: A burglar, a con artist, a gang member, a drug pusher, or some other
person who preys on vulnerabilities.
 Entertainment: An actor, a pop idol, a sex worker, an athlete, a livestreamer, a
podcaster, or other some person who entertains.
 Family: A stay at home parent, a teen, a legal guardian, a PTA member, or some
other person invested in caring for the young.
 Labor: A farmer, a factory worker, a transport driver, a seamster, a miner, or some
other person living by the sweat of their brow.
 Law: A cop, a lawyer, a social worker, a court clerk, or some other person involved
with legal proceedings.
 Military: A cadet, a quiet posting, a quartermaster, a deckhand, a guerilla, or some
other job involved in The War.
 Political: A local council person, a volunteer, a propagandist, an activist, or some
other person pushing political goals.
40


===== PÁGINA 41 =====

 Spiritual: a choir member, a yogi, a priest, a psychologist, or some other person
invested in spiritual well being.
 Trade: a stock trader, a Cashier, a banker, an arms dealer, or some other person
who handles money.
TRAGEDY
A pilot’s Tragedy is the event that propels them into their involvement in The War. It might be
the loss of loved ones, being targeted by accusations (regardless of the truth), or witnessing
an atrocity. It might not put them immediately into a Squad, but it does put them on a course
where every day they get closer to the controls of a war machine.
When a pilot's Tragedy is expressed during play, they will get XP at the end of the
session.
EXAMPLE TRAGEDIES
 Hid in a mass grave.
 Lone survivor of a militia
 Friends started disappearing.
 Family killed as collateral damage.
 Orbital station home used as a kinetic weapon.
 Unwillingly experimented on by unethical researchers.
 Exiled from homeland.
 Falsely charged with a major crime.
 Shown the lie of their own life.
 Participated in a failed coup or mutiny.
OPENING
A pilot’s Opening is what they were doing with their life before they joined the Squad. It is
what they did with themselves between their tragedy and the opening of the game. Some will
be in a deep depression, possibly at the bottom of a bottle. Others will be training hard to get
their revenge. A few will try to continue with their lives, pretending that their fate is not
irrevocably changed and pulling them towards The War. All will be forced into a new life at
the start of the game.
When a pilot's Opening is expressed during play, they will get XP at the end of the
session.
41


===== PÁGINA 42 =====

EXAMPLE OPENINGS
 Building a custom vehicle from spare parts.
 Avoiding people with long voyage transport jobs.
 Studying military strategy in preparation for war.
 Catching deserters as a bounty hunter.
 Stuck in prison for petty crimes.
 Driving a taxi in areas autocars can't navigate.
 Commanding a gang of rabble and scum.
 Tending to the needs of an admiral as their valet.
 Getting by as a sex worker.
 Fighting in the vehicle arena.
 Shuffling papers in a cubicle farm.
 Serving drinks in a run down bar.
PILOT ACTIONS
When Pilots take actions that don't require their vehicles, their player selects the Pilot Action
that is most suitable to the situation. There are 12 actions, and they are broken up into
groups of 4, all of which fall under their shared Attribute. An Attribute is a loose description
used for determining Resistance rolls (see page ??).
All pilot action ratings max out at 4 points, but during pilot creation they can't have more than
2 points in an action. The mastery Squad upgrade is required to unlock the fourth point.
Pilots have access to the following actions:
INSIGHT ACTIONS
These are actions that rely on the sharp insights of the pilot.
Hunt: for tracking and long distance precision.
Study: for inspecting details and evidence.
Survey: for observing surroundings and possible outcomes.
Engineer: for adjusting and creating devices and mechanisms.
PROWESS ACTIONS
These are actions that make use of the pilot's physical prowess.
Finesse: for using manual dexterity.
42


===== PÁGINA 43 =====

Prowl: for moving with grace and power.
Struggle: for engaging in close quarters combat.
Wreck: for applying brute force.
RESOLVE ACTIONS
These are actions where the pilot's powerful resolve is of the utmost importance.
Command: for compelling quick obedience.
Consort: for socializing with others.
Interface: for using complex digital equipment.
Sway: for influencing through guile, charm, or debate.
DRIVES
What do you want to change? Regardless of how they ended up in The War, every Pilot has
an ambition. Maybe they want to get revenge on the Squad that destroyed their village.
Perhaps they want to climb the ladder, and reach a position of power in their Faction. Then
there's the always relevant "live happily ever after." Drives are how these changes are made.
The ability to make changes are represented by a Drive, and two 4-tick clocks. The
Drive is a sentence that briefly explains what the Pilot hopes to change in the world. When a
Pilot does something new that furthers their Drive, they can add 1 tick to a Drive clock at the
end of the mission as part of the Reward process. If they complete a Long-term Project that
furthers their Drive, they can add 1 tick to a Drive clock in addition to the normal benefits of
completing that project. Repeating an action during a mission or a Long-Term Project during
downtime to further your Drive won’t provide more than the first tick. It doesn’t matter how
many times you record an album, only the first one will help you become a pop idol.
You can also get Drive ticks by calling in favours from your Patron Faction or other
Squads. To do this you must have a Relationship with your Patron of +1 or higher, or a +3
Status with another Squad. If you are spending your social capital with your Patron, lower
your Squad's Relationship by 1. If you are using good will with another Squad to advance
your Drive, lower your Squad's Status with them by 3. Obviously this affects the entire
Squad and not just your character, so make sure that you have permission from all of the
other players before you use this rule.
If you’ve chosen a Drive that seems too big or too amorphous to affect, it is alright to
get Drive ticks for relatively small actions. For example if your Drive is to “remove the orbital
debris cloud,” you could get a tick by suggesting that a salvage squad could turn a profit by
taking the cloud apart. Focus on moving one step at a time, and you’ll make the journey
43


===== PÁGINA 44 =====

before you know it.
The one thing Drives can't do is end The War. There are too many pressures from
too many sources for one person or one Squad to stop it. You might be able to shift the
nature of The War however, by changing how or why it is fought. See Spending Drive
(page ??) for details.
EXAMPLE DRIVES
Here are some example Drives along with examples of what might add ticks to them.
Drive Progress
Kill the man responsible for
destroying my hometown.
 Defeat your Rival.
 Learn his weaknesses.
 Find out where he sleeps.
Become a famous pop idol.
 Get a record deal.
 Record an album.
 Perform for a crowd.
Get a high ranking position
in the military.
 Help a superior advance in rank.
 Weaken a peer's political position.
 Prove your own competence.
Build a horse ranch away
from The War.
 Acquire land in a safe place.
 Acquire a few quality horses.
 Hire some ranchers.
Develop a weapon that
could end The War.
 Develop an overlooked science into something deadly.
 Prove that it can be controlled.
 Weaponize it on a massive scale.
Make sure that my friends
will have a good life.
 Start a trust fund for your friends.
 Help them avoid getting a Scar.
 Take the blame for a disaster.
SPENDING DRIVE
Once a Drive clock is full it can be spent to change the world. The more clocks spent at
once, the bigger the change.
 Spend 1 clock to negate Harm or Damage of any Level, change an Action or Fortune
Roll to a 6, or Assist another Pilot by providing all 4 benefits.
 Spend 2 clocks to change the life circumstances of one person. This is the only way
to permanently defeat a Rival.
 Spend 3 clocks to change the circumstances of a Squad.
 Spend 4 clocks to change the circumstances of a Faction.
 Any time you spend a clock, in addition to the normal benefits you can choose to
rewrite your Drive.
44


===== PÁGINA 45 =====

As a Pilot only has 2 Drive clocks, more than one Pilot must spend Drive to change
the circumstances of a Squad or Faction. If more than one Pilot spends Drive to affect a
Squad or Faction, one of them is designated the Leader. The Leader is the Pilot who came
up with the idea, presented the evidence, organized the squad, and just generally took
charge. Every Pilot gets to add one tick to their Connection clock with the Leader, and the
Leader gets to add one tick to their Connection clock with everyone who donated a Drive
clock.
What is meant by "change" and "circumstances" is left intentionally vague because
what can be changed and how much, are ways to control the tone of the game. In a game
where the Pilots are narratively powerful changing a Faction could be convincing the
Jovangellian Empire to become a constitutional monarchy, giving political power to the
masses. In a less heroic game spending 4 clocks might only mean that the Jovangellian
child empress is able to reach adulthood in good health. While the example about of the
child empress reaching adulthood is a 4 Drive change it could also be a 2 Drive change
instead. The difference is on the scale of the effect. Spending 4 means that the empress
grows up and this changes the Jovangellian Empire. Spending 2 means that she grows up
but is ineffectual and becomes a footnote in history.
The changes wrought by spending Drives can build on each other. For example, if
the Jovangellian Empire becomes a constitutional monarchy, a later expenditure of 4 Drive
could put it and the Democratic Federated Systems into a true alliance with no betrayal
foreshadowed. When combining the effects of spending Drive, the expense does NOT need
to be the same amount each time. The only restriction is that each instance of spending
Drive must affect the appropriate scale. For example spending 2 Drive and then 3 Drive
must affect a person and a Squad respectively, and cannot affect a Faction. If 2 Drive was
spent to ensure an ally is put into a position of Jovangellian power, that could be built upon
by spending 4 Drive to have them enact the move into a constitutional monarchy.
Lastly, the changes from spending Drive must follow the fiction. If a Pilot has been
fighting fiercely against their Rival with no concern for either side's health, spending 2 Drive
to permanently remove their Rival as a threat doesn't mean the Rival will suddenly switch
sides; they are going to die. Likewise spending those 2 Drive against a Rival who has just
appeared in the Mission will not immediately fill their progress clock, but it WILL seal their
fate once that clock is filled. That said, to gain Ticks in a Drive clock in the first place a Pilot
must have done things that further their Drive, and so there is a good chance they have in
fact already laid the groundwork. In short, when spending Drive consider the Pilot's past acts
in relation to their goals, and how those will shape the outcome.
45


===== PÁGINA 46 =====

CONNECTIONS
The ties between pilots in a Squad are as diverse as those between family. Sometimes they
are intense, heated, and asymmetrical, while other times they are cool, cordial, and mutual.
These Connections determine how Stressful it is and competent you are when you need to
assist your fellows.
On your pilot’s character sheet there will be a separate 4-tick clock for each other
pilot in your Squad representing your relationship with that pilot. For each Tick in that Clock
make a Belief about the pilot the Clock is tied to. When the Clock fills, ask the target pilot for
a truth about one of the Beliefs tied to them, then reset it to 1 Tick as you see them in a new
light. It’ll take time and effort to understand them again and relearn their rhythms, so the pilot
erases all the Beliefs they have for that pilot, and writes a new one related to the truth just
learned. After they’ve revealed a truth about themself, you both take 1 XP which can be put
into any attribute or into the pilot Playbook.
Connection Ticks are added each time a Pilot Cuts Loose (see page ??) during
Downtime. Spending Drive clocks on another Pilot's plans, or receiving them for your own
plans, also add Ticks. Lastly, some special abilities, such as the Empath's Carouse, add
Ticks under certain circumstances.
BELIEFS
Pilots in Beam Saber are survivors, and part of their ability to survive is correctly judging the
people around them. They quickly form opinions about who they can trust, who they should
fear, and who they can use. This makes them rather opinionated about their fellow pilots,
and of course they aren’t always correct. These opinions are a pilot’s Beliefs.
Each Belief a pilot has is a statement that they feel is true about another pilot. They are
simple, quick, and influential in the rapport between the two; however, the players need to
remember that they are not necessarily true.
Each Playbook has some example Beliefs that can be used, but feel free to write your own.
A good Belief is:
 Something that a pilot might say about their squadmate to a confidante.
 Easily summarized so that it can be quickly remembered when relevant.
 Potentially true.
 Suitable for the game’s setting and tone.
 Something the player is interested in exploring.
If a character struggles because of the Beliefs that they have about their fellow pilots then
they can mark 1 XP at the end of session, or 2 XP if it came up more than once.
46


===== PÁGINA 47 =====

STRESS
The pilots in Beam Saber are extraordinary survivors. Through luck and force of will, they
can overcome many obstacles that other people would fall to. This is represented by their
Stress. There are five main ways that a pilot can spend their Stress to move the odds in their
favour.
 Pushing Themself: For every two Stress, a pilot spends they can select the
following options once each: Take +1d to any kind of roll where extra effort would
help; Take +1 level of Effect to an action; Take any action while incapacitated
(primarily by level 3 Harm). Taking +1d by Pushing Themselves means that even a
pilot that has 0d in an action gains a 50/50 chance to succeed by using a little
Stress.
 Flashbacks: When a pilot has prepared for a seemingly unexpected circumstance,
they can have a Flashback to show why they aren’t caught off guard. The pilot
should describe what they did, and the GM will tell them if there is a need for an
Action Roll. If the preparation was simple and there was ample opportunity to do
so, it costs 0 Stress. If the preparation was complicated or there was little chance
to make it, it costs 1 Stress. If the preparation was convoluted, involving unlikely
occurrences and openings, it costs 2 Stress. A Flashback cannot undo something
that has already happened, such as removing a character currently in the scene,
but it can provide means for dealing with the current situation. If a Flashback
involves a Downtime Activity, pay 1 Personnel or 1 Rep for it instead of Stress.
 Assist: When a pilot aids another, they spend Stress to give their ally benefits; this
explained in more detail in the Teamwork section (pg ?).
 Resistance: When a pilot negates a consequence of an action, they take Stress
based on their resistance roll. This is explained in more detail in the Resistance
and Armor section (pg ?).
 Special Abilities: Some abilities allow a pilot to spend Stress to activate rare
talents, such as the Empath’s Telepathy or the Hacker’s Tempest.
When a pilot reaches their max Stress (9 Stress in most cases), they can either leave the
situation quietly to lick their wounds or try to push on recklessly.
 If they choose to remove themselves quietly, the pilot heals all Stress and chooses
a Scar suitable to the event that filled their last Stress box. They leave the current
situation in a terrible state, but return later at an appropriate time without the need
to Cut Loose due to Scars during the next Downtime.
 If they choose to push on recklessly, they can take a Dire Action. With this action,
47


===== PÁGINA 48 =====

they can ignore any Harm or Damage penalties they currently have. They cannot
spend Stress to take this action, nor can they make resist rolls, since their Stress is
at max (Quirks can still be exhausted as normal). If they get a 6 on their action,
they can take another Dire Action, potentially allowing them to have several fully
successful actions. If a 5 or lower is rolled, or they choose to take no further action
(other pilots can still act between the Dire Actions of the pilot), that is their last
action. On a result of less than 6, they suffer consequences as normal.
After taking their last action (or at the end of the scene) they receive an
appropriate Level 3 Harm and are removed from the scene in bad shape. With their
Stress was maxed out, several things happen when they return; their Stress is now
all healed, they gain a Scar appropriate to the occurrence that filled their last Stress
box, and they don’t need to Cut Loose due to Scars during the next Downtime.
If they roll a crit, they heal 1 Stress instead of having improved Effect, and
are no longer taking Dire actions, instead they return to acting normally. They avoid
taking a Scar and the Level 3 Harm caused by the Dire Action.
SCARS
When a player selects a Scar for their pilot, they are forever changed by The War. Scar
conditions are not easily removed and affect the pilot’s personality.
If a pilot suffers the repercussions of their Scars during a session, they can mark XP at the
end of the session. This can occur through narrative play, such as missing opportunities or
needlessly creating trouble, and also through Consequences on Action Rolls. When you see
an opportunity for your Scar to cause you trouble, tell the GM and they'll add an appropriate
Consequence to your roll, regardless of the result.
The possible Scars are:
 Cold  Reckless
 Haunted  Soft
 Obsessed  Vicious
 Paranoid  Fractious
If a pilot takes a fourth Scar condition, they become unable to Effectively contribute to The
War. At this point, they must either retire to a life elsewhere or they can be handed over to a
Faction that has a negative Relationship with the Squad. If they retire, they start to live away
from The War with a quality of life indicated by the changes they made by spending Drive (as
described in the Drives section, see page ??). If they are given to another Faction, the
48


===== PÁGINA 49 =====

Squad’s Relationship with that Faction goes up by one level. What happens to the Pilot after
that is up to the GM, but it probably isn’t pleasant.
TEAMWORK
There will be times when you need a little help from your friends, and that’s when you need
teamwork. There are three methods to aid your fellow pilots.
ASSIST
Describe how your pilot helps another with their action. Take Stress equal to the number of
Ticks in your Connection Clock with them, then select that many unique benefits from the
following:
 They take +1d.
 They have improved Effect.
 They have improved Position.
 They ignore their level 3 Harm.
 They ignore their level 3 Damage.
The stronger the Connection you have with the pilot, the more Stressful it is to assist them
when they’re in need, and the harder you work to aid them. If more than one pilot wants to
assist the acting pilot, consider that the character being assisted might actually be leading a
group action.
LEAD A GROUP ACTION
When you direct a group of pilots to overcome an obstacle together, describe how your
character leads the effort. Every pilot that’s involved rolls using the same action, and the
group uses the single best result for everyone. If the Action rolled is a pilot action, the pilot
leading the group takes 1 Stress for each participant that rolled 1-3 as their best result. If the
Action rolled is a vehicle action the pilot leading the group exhausts 1 Quirk (or adds one tick
to their Temporary Vehicle Clock) if they rolled 1-3 as their best result, and another if any
other participant rolled 1-3 as their best result. If a pilot didn’t roll as part of the group, they
can’t use the group’s result. If the roll has a Desperate Position, the leader takes 1 attribute
XP. If you are leading a Cohort, roll Command if you’re conducting their operation, or the
appropriate action if you’re acting in concert with them. The Cohort rolls its Quality to
determine how much Stress you take.
PROTECT
Describe how you maneuver yourself to take a consequence that would otherwise affect a
49


===== PÁGINA 50 =====

squadmate. You suffer that consequence in their place, and you can resist it as normal.
SETUP
When you make a setup action, you are weakening an obstacle or empowering an ally. With
a success, any squadmates that follow through on your action have improved Position or
increased Effect. You choose the benefit based on the nature of your ploy.
PILOT LOOKS
Pilots in Beam Saber come from all walks of life. Some are grizzled veterans, others are
former pop idols, a few are teens trying to cope with their newfound situation. Here are some
suggestions for how to describe their appearance.
 Face: masked, beautiful, scarred, young, decorated, rugged, calm
 Eyes: artificial, cold, mocking, trusting, trustworthy, uncertain, warm
 Hair: flowing, military, punk, braided, poofy, slick
 Body: big, compact, flabby, muscular, scarred, skinny, toned, voluptuous
 Outfit: military, ornate, formal, vintage, practical, casual, scavenged
RIVALS
Pilots have very intense lives, which leads to very intense encounters with other people, and
sometimes these interactions lead to an antagonistic Connection. There’s a person out there
that they just can’t stand, and the feeling is mutual. This is a pilot’s Rival who exists to
present a challenge whenever they are on screen.
The pilot can acquire a new Rival by naming an NPC they are interested in clashing
with in the future. The NPC in question can be present in the current scene, declared during
pilot creation, or at any time. With the Rival established, they immediately gain increased
narrative significance, as well as all of the mechanical benefits that come with their new
position. Add the Rival to the Pilot’s Connection Sheet, mark 1 Tick in their Connection
Clock, and write 1 Belief about them (or choose an example Belief from your Playbook). A
pilot can only have one Rival at a time, but more than one pilot can share the same Rival.
Declaring a Rival lowers the status of the Rival’s Squad by 1, which may put them in
Vendetta with the players. Picking fights can ruin associations. Killing a Rival also lowers
their Squad’s status by 1 as they are an important pillar of morale.
When a Rival becomes part of a mission, they will always be an obstacle for the
pilots and overcoming them is represented by an 8 Tick progress Clock, called the Challenge
Clock. Rivals, no matter how friendly, are never to be taken lightly. If the fiction demands it,
50


===== PÁGINA 51 =====

they may even have more than one Clock to represent multiple obstacles to be removed
before the Rival can be tackled directly. If more than one pilot has the same Rival, add one 4
Tick Challenge Clock to defeat them per additional pilot with that rivalry.
For example Hannah Copeland is both Pitchfork and Dredge’s Rival, so when she
appears in a mission the players must fill her 8 Tick Challenge Clock (the base Rival clock)
plus a 4 Tick clock (one additional rivalry) to defeat her. If Scarecrow also has Hannah as a
Rival, then she is represented by one 8 Tick Challenge Clock and two 4 Tick Challenge
Clocks.
In addition to being persistent opponents, Rivals are very dangerous both during
missions and between them. A number of times per mission equal to the number of Pilots on
the mission, a Rival can inflict a consequence at any time (before a pilot acts, on a result of
6, after a Fortune Roll, at ANY time) which is called a Rival Move. The severity of the
consequence is the same as the affected Pilot’s current Position, and must be appropriate to
the fiction. If more than one pilot has the same Rival, they receive an extra Rival Move per
additional pilot with that rivalry.
For example Hannah Copeland gets 4 Rival Moves because she is Pitchfork’s rival
and there are 4 pilots on the mission. If Dredge and Scarecrow also have her as a Rival she
gets a total of 6 Rival Moves.
Between sessions when the GM is making Fortune Rolls to determine the progress
of Squad goal Clocks, a Rival will either support their Squad’s goal or pursue their own
interests. If they are supporting their Squad, the Squad gets +1d on its Fortune Roll. If the
Rival is working on their own plans they ignore their Squad’s Tier and instead roll 1d.
If the pilot who has this person as their Rival adds at least 1 Tick to the Rival’s
Challenge Clock and the Clock is filled before the end of the mission, then that pilot can
mark 1 XP in the Playbook XP track. If filling this Clock also means that the Rival is
permanently removed as a threat to the Squad by spending 2 Drive Clocks, the pilot can
mark an additional 2 XP. “Permanently removed as a threat” is pointedly broad, as they
might be persuaded to leave The War, be put into a coma, or join the Squad. If the Rival is
removed as a threat, XP can no longer be gained from them. If a Rival's progress Clock is
partially or completely filled during a Mission, but they are not permanently removed as a
threat, any ticks on the clocks are removed as they have time to recuperate.
The Rival Connection Clock can increase two ways: the Rival inflicts a Consequence
on the Pilot, or the Pilot adds 1 Tick to the Rival’s Challenge Clock. Each of these can add a
Tick once per mission and Downtime. When the Connection Clock fills, the Pilot takes 1 XP,
and asks a question about their Belief with the Rival (which the GM must answer truthfully).
They then reset the Connection Clock to 1 and write a new Belief about their Rival. If the
Pilot struggles because of their Belief with their Rival, they can mark XP at the end of the
51


===== PÁGINA 52 =====

session.
Rivals should have agency, power, and the ability to mess with the PCs’ plans. They
should use abhorrent means to admirable goals, or gain admirable Effects from horrible
goals. Put them at odds with the pilots’ goals and/or ethics, and then turn the screws.
ALLIES
Friends come in all different forms. There are those who are from childhood, current (or
former) lovers, tied together by blood, and many others. A pilot’s Ally is not defined by the
nature of their Connection, but by the fact that the pilot can rely on them.
Once per mission a Pilot can declare that they “have an old friend” who can help.
Describe the scenario of when you last saw them, and make a Action Roll appropriate for
those circumstances. A 4-6 indicates that you are on good terms with the Ally and they are
likely to help you. A 1-3 shows that they don't want to see you, but could be convinced to
help. Any roll less than a 6 incurs Consequences as appropriate to the Position, which might
be related to your past with the Ally, the Ally's current situation, or something unrelated to the
Ally. Add the ally to your Connections sheet with a short description instead of Beliefs.
For Example Demon contacts Julia “Ripper” Faraday of The Hyenas for some help.
Last time he saw her, they were on opposite sides of the battlefield in their AWVs, so he rolls
a Risky Standard Battle to see how she’s feeling about that. He gets a 4, so she’s happy to
hear from him, but there will be a Risky Consequence. She is facing disciplinary action for
punching a superior officer, and Demon will have to help her get her AWV out of the
impound lot if she's going to use it.
If a pilot wants to accomplish something and they don’t know how, they should
consider whether or not an Ally would be able to help them. Allies are emotionally invested in
aiding the pilot, but can’t always be present or doing things for them. This means that
sometimes taking advantage of what your Ally provides requires an Action or Fortune Roll.
Allies exist to provide an avenue for the pilots to accomplish their goals, not to do it for them.
Unlike Rivals, a pilot can have any number of Allies; however, it takes a lot more work
to make friends than it does to make enemies. If a pilot wants to add an NPC as an Ally,
make sure that it fits the fiction. A brand new acquaintance won’t be an Ally, but if the pilot
works to build a bond (possibly through a Long Term Project), then they will probably
become one.
PILOT ADVANCEMENT
As pilots make their way through The War they’ll build up experience, which is represented
by XP. There are three types of XP: Playbook XP, Attribute XP, and General XP.
52


===== PÁGINA 53 =====

 Playbook XP is gained by Training the Playbook during Downtime, which lets the
pilot mark 1 XP box next to “Playbook” on the character sheet. When a pilot’s
Playbook has 8 XP, they reset their Playbook XP to 0 and take a new Playbook
special ability.
 Attribute XP is gained by performing Desperate actions, regardless of the result,
giving that action’s attribute 1 XP. For example, if a Desperate Consort roll is made
the pilot’s Resolve gains 1 XP. When an attribute gathers 6 XP, it resets to 0 and
another point can be added to one of the actions that falls under the attribute.
Actions have a max rating of 3 unless the Squad has taken the Mastery Squad
upgrade.
 General XP is gained at the end of the play session. The pilot will determine if they
expressed their Tragedy, History, or Opening; struggled because of their Beliefs,
Scars or their vehicle’s Quirks; or addressed challenges with methods determined
by their Playbook. For each of these, the pilot takes 1 XP, and for each item that
occurred more than once, take an additional 1 XP. General XP is then assigned as
Playbook or attribute XP as decided by the pilot.
PILOT VS PILOT AND PLAYER VS PLAYER
In the course of your game, there may be times when the interests of pilots become opposed
and they take action against each other. For the most part, this is handled with the same
rules as when a pilot acts against an NPC; one pilot acts and rolls an appropriate action, and
those involved deal with the consequences by making resistance rolls as desired. That said,
here are some suggestions for keeping the conflict purely in the game world.
 Take a breather. Stop everything and take stock of the situation when pilots act
against each other. The narrative is frozen in time, nothing’s moving forward until
everyone agrees that it’s time to continue the story. We do this so that there’s no
rush to roll dice, so that things don’t devolve into “I shot you” “No you didn’t!”. If you
need to know who will act first, it should be clear from the fiction. If it isn’t clear,
have each player make a Fortune Roll using the action they’re taking, and have the
pilot with the higher roll act first (reroll ties).
 Accept the method for resolution. Don’t roll any dice or move the story forward
until everyone understands what’s at stake. Discuss what everyone’s goals are in
this moment, what they are planning on doing, what they are willing to give, and
how the difference in objective might be resolved. Every person at the table gets to
make suggestions, objections, and negotiate on what’s happening. If a unanimous
53


===== PÁGINA 54 =====

decision on how this could be resolved isn’t reached, then the conflict doesn’t come
to a head. It’s not unusual for two people to be a hair away from coming to blows
only for them to walk away.
 Acknowledge the outcome. Since everyone has agreed on the method for
resolution, then everyone must accept the outcome. Consequences can always be
resisted, but trying to escape them outside of the rules is acting in bad faith.
 Examine the source of the conflict. If the conflict that arises is because of
differences between the pilots, then there’s nothing to worry about. However,
conflicts between players cannot be solved by rolling dice. If this is the case,
everyone needs to talk this out until there is a resolution of some kind. Beam Saber
isn’t for sniping at other players, avoiding interpersonal problems, or replacing
reasonable socializing.
PILOT ACTIONS IN DEPTH
This section contains extended descriptions of each Pilot Action.
COMMAND
When you Command, you force immediate obedience. You might lead a Fireteam in combat,
or brow beat a person to give into your demands. In a Flashback you might have
Commanded a crowd of witnesses to support you instead of your opposition. You could try
getting a superior to do what you want (but Sway might be better).
CONSORT
When you Consort, you mingle with allies and acquaintances. You might gain access to
resources, information, people, or places. You might make a good impression and make a
new contact with your social grace. In a Flashback you might have partied with a courier so
their important delivery was late. You could try to persuade someone with social pressure
(but Sway might be better).
ENGINEER
When you Engineer, you build or tinker with an object. You might develop a non-contagious
strain of the flu. You might fix a broken door. In a Flashback you might have set up placed
explosives to go off exactly when you need them. You could make an inventory program (but
Interface might be better).
54


===== PÁGINA 55 =====

FINESSE
When you Finesse, you handle an object with agility. You might secretly draw a pistol. In a
Flashback you might have already stolen the guard’s keys. You could hotwire a vehicle (but
Engineer might be better).
HUNT
When you Hunt, you track targets and attack over great distances. You might follow a Squad
through a ruined city. In a Flashback you might have killed the getaway driver before the
other operators completed their objective. You could shoot at someone across the room (but
Struggle might be better).
INTERFACE
When you Interface, you work closely with electronic equipment, making it an extension of
your body. You might hack into a technologically advanced vehicle or understand how it
works. In a Flashback you might have tricked an enemy’s vehicle into updating its operating
system when it was next started. You could disable a vehicle’s forcefield (but Battle might be
better).
PROWL
When you Prowl, you move with grace and precision. You might climb a mech in the middle
of a battle. You might sneak past a security camera. You might stab an unsuspecting foe. In
a Flashback you might have destroyed a building’s security cameras. You could escape
being buried in rubble (but Wreck might be better).
STRUGGLE
When you Struggle, you employ lethal or less than lethal violence. You might restrain a
panicking civilian. You might exchange gunfire across rooftops. In a Flashback you might
have already incapacitated the security guards. You could identify a fighting style (but Study
might be better).
STUDY
When you Study, you meticulously examine details for better understanding. You might read
technical manuals to find a weak point. You might determine a statement’s truth by
scrutinizing the speaker. In a Flashback you might have scouted out a facility’s delivery
schedule. You could try to read a charged situation (but Survey might be better).
55


===== PÁGINA 56 =====

SURVEY
When you Survey, you observe your surroundings and predict outcomes. You might spot
trouble before it happens. You might discover an attacker’s vulnerabilities. In a Flashback
you might have seen the fastest route through a crowded market. You could diagnose what
destroyed a vehicle (but Engineer might be better).
SWAY
When you Sway, you persuade with guile, wit, and cHarm. You might negotiate better
ceasefire terms. You might convince a guard that you do in fact belong in the restricted area.
In a Flashback you might have bought an item before it went to auction. You could get
nervous militia to charge the enemy (but Command might be better).
WRECK
When you Wreck, you act with brutal force. You might lift a car off a wounded companion.
You might smash through a locked door. In a Flashback you might have weakened a floor to
collapse when an enemy fire team walked onto it. You could attack with pure strength (but
Struggle might be better).
STANDARD PILOT GEAR
When declaring items that your pilot is carrying during a mission, you can select from the
items of your Playbook and from the following:
 Bribe: The liquid assets a pilot has on hand. Each point of Personnel or Materiel is
1 Load.
 A blade or two [Load 1]: A nice, big 1-handed blade or a smaller, but no less
deadly, pair.
 Throwing knives [Load 1]: Six light blades made for throwing and unwieldy to fight
with.
 A heavy weapon [Load 2]: A large 2-handed weapon such as a sledge or wood
axe.
 An unusual weapon [Load 1]: Could be a stun baton, nerve-whip, or something
stranger.
 Burglary gear [Load 1]: Lockpicks (both mechanical and electronic), thin wire and
hooks, a mister, and other intrusion tools.
 Climbing gear [Load 2]: Ascenders, descenders, fast rope, harnesses, and more.
Everything you need to climb a wall or rappel down one for a dynamic entry.
56


===== PÁGINA 57 =====

 A pistol [Load 1]: A semi-automatic pistol or revolver.
 A rifle or shotgun [Load 2]: A semi-automatic rifle or pump action shotgun. Useful
at distance or close up, respectively.
 Palm computer with useful programs [Load 1]: A small, book-sized computer
with handy but simple programs.
 Documents [Load 1]: Digital and printed files on diverse topics, along with the
tools to create or annotate files.
 Subterfuge supplies [Load 1]: A set of actors’ props and makeup with
accompanying documents for making disguises.
 Demolition tools [Load 2]: Power tools suitable for destruction or “heavy
remodeling.”
 Placed explosives [Load 1]: A brick of moldable explosive putty with a timer or
remote detonator. Never quiet.
 Flashlight, flares, or glow sticks [Load 1]: A simple form of illumination that can
be activated when needed.
 Intrusion Countermeasures Program (ICP) [Load 0]: A program that provides
some limited protection to electronic devices against hacking.
 Armor [Load 2]: A tactical vest with matching gloves, boots, and pads.
 Heavy armor [Load +3, Load 5 total]: Trauma plates added to the vest, and a
helmet added to your head.
 Intel [Load 0]: Information provided to the Squad that you can access. Spend 1
Personnel point to get +1d on a Gather Information roll while on mission.
 Parachute [Load 2]: A large backpack containing a parachute providing some
maneuverability and protection while falling from great heights.
 Throat mic transceiver [Load 0]: A device pressed against the throat that can
transmit the wearer’s voice over short distances.
 Long-range transmitter [Load 1]: A device that can send data over great
distances.
 Smartphone [Load 0]: A pocketable tool providing many different digital functions
but with a reliance on a probably compromised infrastructure for sending and
receiving data.
 Environmental suit [Load 0 if worn, Load 2 if carried as a secondary outfit]: A
57


===== PÁGINA 58 =====

bulky suit that protects the wearer from lack of oxygen, vacuum, radiation, and has
maneuvering thrusters for use in microgravity.
 Remote vehicle control [Load 1]: A tool allowing a pilot to remotely control a
vehicle but it’s not as Effective as being in the cockpit.
58


===== PÁGINA 59 =====

PILOT PLAYBOOKS
INSERT FULL PAGE ACE ART HERE.
59


===== PÁGINA 60 =====

THE ACE
A graceful and daring pilot.
The battlefields of the war stretch across cities, continents, and star systems. Such
distances are not easily traversed on foot, becoming full of incredible machines that stride,
soar, and roam through them. A vehicle is what most see them as, just a tool, but for Aces
they're a better half. Created with purity of purpose and a desire to be filled, the vehicles in
the War are a light for people looking to join in that purity and desire.
How’d you gain your skills? What made you realize you belonged behind the wheel?
ACE ACTIONS
+2 Maneuver, +1 Engineer
XP TRIGGER
At the end of a session take XP if you addressed a challenge with piloting or violence.
ACE SPECIALIST PILOT GEAR
 Grav chute [Load 1]: an advanced piece of gear that uses anti-gravity technology
to safely slow the wearer’s descent.
 Fine remote vehicle control [Load 1]: An excellent tool allowing a pilot to remotely
control a vehicle without any degradation of intent.
 Self destruct remote [Load 0]: A palm sized device that will destroy the pilot’s
vehicle when activated.
 Fine environmental suit [Load 0 if worn, Load 2 if carried as a secondary outfit]: A
finely crafted suit that protects the wearer from hazards such as lack of air,
vacuum, and radiation. Also has maneuvering thrusters for use in microgravity.
 Your custom vehicle [Load 0]: The vehicle assigned to you suitable to your
needs. It’s represented by the vehicle entry on your pilot sheet.
ACE SPECIALIST VEHICLE GEAR
 Fine mobility suite [Load 2]: an excellent grapple system, jump jets, foot wheels,
or other mobility system.
 Boosted reactor (1 use) [Load 1]: spend for improved Effect when speed or agility
60


===== PÁGINA 61 =====

is required. This refills at the start of each mission.
 Fine machine gun [Load 1]: A finely made, fully automatic, anti vehicle cannon.
 Fine shield or forcefield [Load 1]: An extremely sturdy shield made of advanced
materials or electromagnetic forces.
 Reflex Adjustment and Guidance Engine (R.A.G.E) [Load 0]: an interface
system that when activated greatly enhances the pilot’s abilities at the cost of their
survival instincts for several minutes. This may improve your Position and Effect in
maneuvering. You also suffer the consequences “Death Wish” and “Possibility
Hallucinations” which can be resisted as normal. The modified Position and Effect,
and any unresisted consequences last until the end of the next scene.
ACE ABILITIES
 Adaptable: You may spend your Spark to make up to two points of your vehicle’s
Load undeclared or to push yourself in a vehicular maneuver.
 More Than Meets The Eye: Your custom vehicle has the ability to transform into a
secondary form. Detail that second form. Select 2 Load worth of vehicle gear and 3
points of action ratings that your vehicle has. It lacks this gear and action ratings
when in its secondary form. Select 2 Load worth of vehicle gear and 3 points of
action ratings that your vehicle lacks. It has this gear and action ratings when in its
secondary form.
 Meat Is Cheap, Save The Metal: When the vehicle you are piloting takes damage
you can choose for the pilot to take an equal level of Harm instead. If you resist this
Harm take -1d to the resist roll. Pilot armor cannot be used to prevent this damage.
 Last Stand: When you take a dire action with a Vehicle, you can continue to act on
a 4, 5, or 6, instead of just on 6s. Take a bonus die to Dire Actions for each point of
Breakdown your Vehicle has before the Dire Action completes.
 Advanced Prototype: When declaring vehicular gear you can state that it’s
experimental. That gear has its Load reduced by 1 (to a minimum of 0). When you
push your vehicle using that gear take increased Effect AND +1d. You can only
have 1 experimental item at a time.
 Bloodlust: Gain the Tragedy “Seeks violence.” When you defeat a worthy foe (or a
gang of the unworthy) in battle heal 2 pilot Stress.
 Red Comet: You have a reputation as a pilot of great skill (whether earned fairly or
not). When you try to impress or dismay someone using your reputation take +1d.
61


===== PÁGINA 62 =====

When you reveal yourself with a dramatic action those around you are briefly
stunned.
 Travelling Companion: You can exhaust 1 Quirk or spend 2 Stress to Push
Yourself on Vehicle actions.
 Veteran: Choose a special ability from another source. Can be taken up to three
times.
EXAMPLE GATHER INFORMATION
 What is their vehicle capable of?
 When are their vehicles unattended?
 What do they intend to do?
 How can I get them to [X]?
 What's the best way through?
 Where did [X] go?
 What’s really going on here?
EXAMPLE STARTING ACE BELIEFS
 They handle their vehicle very badly.
 They don't understand my value as a pilot.
 They are going to get someone killed. I better keep an eye on them.
 They desire glory as much as I do! We’ll make history!
EXAMPLE ACE ALLIES AND RIVALS
 Denari, a gruff mechanic
 Sycamore, a cautious journalist
 Cage, a sly smuggler
 Ripper, a reckless pilot
EXAMPLE ACE STARTING BUILDS
 Legend: Red Comet, Command +2, Consort +2
 Berserker: Bloodlust, Battle +2, Struggle +2
 Tester: Advanced Prototype, Manipulate +1, Engineer +1, Study +2
62


===== PÁGINA 63 =====

 Tanker: Meat Is Cheap, Save The Metal, Battle +1, Survey +1, Study +1, Struggle
+1
63


===== PÁGINA 64 =====

INSERT FULL PAGE BUREAUCRAT ART HERE.
64


===== PÁGINA 65 =====

THE BUREAUCRAT
An overworked and undervalued clerk.
Resource management is something few people understand. The War might seem like
constant bombs and blood but that hides its true face. Paperwork and red tape. It's a relay
race no one watches; requests, orders, and communiques changing hands from nobody to
nobody. When those documents arrive, and if they're unchanged, is left up to the
Bureaucrats.
How often do you abuse your Position? What are your responsibilities? Are you satisfied with
your power?
BUREAUCRAT ACTION RATINGS
+2 Consort, +1 Study
XP TRIGGER
At the end of a session take XP if you addressed a challenge with procedure or
management.
BUREAUCRAT SPECIALIST PILOT GEAR
 Fine Official Documents [Load 1]: cargo manifests, itineraries, work forms, and
other paperwork from official sources that are legitimate.
 Body scanner wand [Load 1]: a handheld device that detects metallic and
electronic objects.
 Travel reports [Load 0]: weather and traffic reports, pedestrian movements, and
up to date cartography.
 Blueprints for a facility or vehicle [Load 1]: A print out or digital file containing
designer’s notes and builder’s plans.
 Barricade Tape Projector [Load 1]: A device that projects a holographic perimeter.
Can trigger an alarm or digital notification when the barricade is crossed.
 Your custom vehicle [Load 0]: The vehicle assigned to you suitable to your
needs. It’s represented by the vehicle entry on your pilot sheet.
65


===== PÁGINA 66 =====

BUREAUCRAT SPECIALIST VEHICLE GEAR
 Inconspicuous style [Load 0]: a plain paint job, a common frame, and panels that
create a bland silhouette. This will make a vehicle less noticeable than it's Load
would indicate.
 Several hand tool sets [Load 1]: A variety of human scale tool sets that a pilot can
swap their Load for if needed.
 Fine cargo container [Load 1]: A well made container for safely storing and
moving a few large items or many small ones.
 Inhibitor Clamp [Load 1]: A device that locks out the start up sequence of a
vehicle, preventing its use. Typically cannot be installed when the vehicle is piloted.
BUREAUCRAT ABILITIES
 Stay Late: Take Level 1 Harm “Tired” to give another pilot an additional Downtime
activity. This Harm can be resisted as normal.
 Cook the Books: Spend 2 Stress and a Downtime activity to gain an additional
Supply roll. If you are part of an Independent Squad your Supply roll is 0d unless
something increases it. This can be done once per Downtime phase.
 Red Tape: When you can quote a regulation that would prevent a Consequence,
you may roll Resolve to resist instead of any other Pilot or Vehicle Attribute.
 Connected: During Downtime, you get +1 result level when you acquire an asset
or schmooze. Take +1d when declaring an Ally during a mission.
 Beneath Notice: When you use a disguise or other form of covert misdirection,
you get +1d to action and resistance rolls (or exhaust 1 fewer Quirk with vehicle
resistance) to confuse or deflect suspicion. When you throw off your disguise, the
resulting surprise gives you the initiative in the situation.
 Work Hard, Play Hard: When you Cut Loose, the person you Cut Loose with may
roll to heal Stress as well using their Connections to you. If either of you Over
Indulge you both suffer the Effects.
 Rainy Day: You may spend your Spark to provide a Supply point to be used
immediately, or to push yourself when trying to bypass or enforce protocol.
 Forgettable: When you successfully Sway someone, you may cause them to
forget that it's happened until they next interact with you.
 Veteran: Choose a special ability from another source. Can be taken up to three
times.
66


===== PÁGINA 67 =====

EXAMPLE GATHER INFORMATION
 What loophole can I abuse?
 What protocol can I enforce?
 What do they intend to do?
 How can I get them to [X]?
 Are they telling the truth?
 How can I find [X]?
 What's really going on here?
EXAMPLE STARTING BUREAUCRAT BELIEFS
 Their disdain for protocol will endanger the squad.
 They are too invested in rules.
 They are lazy.
 They are responsible, so I’m teaching them useful loopholes.
EXAMPLE BUREAUCRAT ALLIES AND RIVALS
 Vex, a quick server
 Tri, an ambitious criminal
 Beagle, an offensive guard
 Jupiter, an absurd claimant
EXAMPLE BUREAUCRAT STARTING BUILDS
 Accountant: Cook the Books, Interface +2, Engineer +1, Study +1
 Janitor: Beneath Notice, Prowl +2, Sway +1, Manipulate +1
 Clerk: Forgettable, Sway +2, Finesse +1, Prowl +1
 Salaryperson: Work Hard, Play Hard, Consort +2, Survey +1, Struggle +1
67


===== PÁGINA 68 =====

INSERT FULL PAGE EMPATH ART HERE.
68


===== PÁGINA 69 =====

THE EMPATH
An empathetic and compassionate psychic.
When someone looks at you they aren’t seeing you. When they hear you, they don’t listen.
They touch but don’t feel. The pressures of population density and society play a joke on the
heart. But people are changing. Not the person you look at, hear, and touch, someone else.
Something else. Evolution is is making something to help bring people closer together
beyond just population density, and these new types of people are Empaths.
What emotions do you refuse to toy with? How did you discover your abilities?
A NOTE ON THE EMPATH AND CONSENT
The Empath has the ability Broadcast which allows the character, and by extension the
player, to force other characters to experience emotions. This is an ability that must be
considered with respect. It's a form of mind control and therefore has serious implications
regarding consent. Regardless of what the target is forced to feel it's a violation of self and
agency. There are two major considerations that should be made before taking the ability
and with each use. The first is if everyone at the table is comfortable with a character’s
personhood being denied. The players are more important than fictional characters and if
that means skipping the Broadcast ability or Empath entirely so be it. The second is that
mind control is a dark ability to have. Even when used for good ends the means are rather
abhorrent. If you are taking the Broadcast ability you need to understand that you are
choosing to play a character who will be doing a Bad Thing if they use it, and that’s ok so
long as you are aware of it and acknowledge it.
EMPATH STARTING ACTIONS
+2 Study, +1 Survey
XP TRIGGER
At the end of a session take XP if you addressed a challenge with understanding or poise.
EMPATH SPECIALIST PILOT GEAR
 Prognostication tools [Load 1]: A set of tools such as tarot cards, tea leaves, or
crystals that you can try to use to predict the future.
 Fine artistic tools [Load 1]: Excellent tools used in painting, performing music,
69


===== PÁGINA 70 =====

cooking, or some other art form.
 Personal emblem [Load 1]: so long as someone is thinking about this item you
know where the item is and can project your powers as if you were present.
 A symbol of hope [Load 1]: An object which inspires those who see it.
 Fine stun gun [Load 1]: A well made weapon meant to incapacitate, but not kill, a
target using electricity.
 Your custom vehicle [Load 0]: The vehicle assigned to you suitable to your
needs. It’s represented by the vehicle entry on your pilot sheet.
EMPATH SPECIALIST VEHICLE GEAR
 Inspiring appearance [Load 1]: An item or various details that make your vehicle a
symbol to those who see it.
 Fine broadcast system [Load 1]: Excellent speakers and transmission unit
allowing the user to broadcast audio and video.
 Fine Social Data Retrieval program [Load 1]: A finely coded program that can
expertly find details about a target’s personal life.
 Psionic amplifier [Load 1]: A device that will increase the range or power of the
user’s psychic abilities.
EMPATH ABILITIES
 Telepathy: You can freely communicate directly to a person’s mind as though
speaking normally if you have previously had a revealing interaction with them.
Additionally when you are part of a Group Action you can spend 1 Stress per
participant (including the Leader) to let everyone participating in the action use the
Leader’s action rating instead of their own.
 Broadcast: When you push yourself in addition to the normal benefits you can do
one of the following: Use your mind to instill a powerful undirected emotion in
others -- paralyze a person with your mind or voice.
 Far Sight: When you Gather Information with Survey take +1d. The information
gained can be from a place and time you were not present.
 Emoji: You know the secret method to interact with an App or AI as if it was a
normal human, regardless of how corrupted or rampant it appears. You have
increased Effect when communicating with the digital entities.
 Carouse: When you participate in a Cut Loose activity choose one of the following:
70


===== PÁGINA 71 =====

The pilot Cutting Loose cannot Overindulge but only heals half the Stress rolled
rounded up; your Relationship with them improves by +1; their Relationship with
you improves by an additional +1.
 Everybody Hurts: You may spend your Spark to resist a consequence from
ambushes (physical or not), or to push yourself to understand others.
 Carry That Weight: You can push yourself after you see the result of an Action
Roll, or Assist after an ally’s Action Roll if no one else Assisted them. When you
have a personal moment with someone, you can take any amount of Stress (up to
your max Stress) to heal that person the same amount of Stress.
 Good Hearted: When you act compassionately (with more than just words)
towards a foe, you keep a Controlled Position until you act against their interests.
 Veteran: Choose a special ability from another source. Can be taken up to three
times.
EXAMPLE GATHER INFORMATION
 How is this person hurt?
 How is this person vulnerable?
 Are they telling the truth?
 What drives them to do this?
 What are they feeling?
 Who's most afraid of me?
 What's really going on here?
EXAMPLE STARTING EMPATH BELIEFS
 I can fix the reason they hurt.
 I can take advantage of their pain.
 Their vehicle has strong emotions tied to it.
 I can feel they are a good person and I implicitly trust them.
EXAMPLE EMPATH ALLIES AND RIVALS
 Zia, a fair painter
 Hatsu, a brash musician
 Kausar, a kind murderer
71


===== PÁGINA 72 =====

 Navneet, a tired athlete
EXAMPLE EMPATH STARTING BUILDS
 Demagogue: Broadcast, Struggle +1, Battle +1, Command +2
 Pacifist: Good Hearted, Consort +2, Prowl +1, Finesse +1
 Esper: Far Sight, Survey +1, Scan +1, Hunt +1, Sway +1
 Medium: Emoji, Interface +2, Sway +1, Consort +1
72


===== PÁGINA 73 =====

INSERT FULL PAGE ENVOY ART HERE.
73


===== PÁGINA 74 =====

THE ENVOY
A stylish and persuasive socialite.
The difference between a diplomat and a spy is the Quality of the intelligence they bring to
their superiors. Ceasefires, alliances, and treaties don't last long in the War and the clever
will make the most of that reprieve by preparing for when it fails. The best use of that time is
to employ an Envoy. Skillfully negotiating the celebrations, deals, and deceptions of politics
to pull the most out of such opportunities, they bring intel home with a smile and handshake.
When are you truthful in a meaningful way? What relationships do you have that aren’t a
means to an end?
ENVOY ACTION RATINGS
+2 Sway, +1 Consort
XP TRIGGER
At the end of a session take XP if you addressed a challenge with deception or influence.
ENVOY SPECIALIST PILOT GEAR
 Fine clothes and jewelry [Load 0, unless it’s a secondary outfit then Load 2]: A set
of clothes suitable for making you look like a wealthy elite.
 Fine Disguise kit [Load 1]: ReFace Paste is gear in the form of a putty synced to a
program that allows the user to greatly change their appearance.
 Fine trick gambling kit [Load 0]: Different cultures have different gambling
practices but you’ve got the tools to give you a leg up.
 Fine Espionage gear [Load 1]: Well made listening devices, micro cameras, key
readers and other devices used to secretly observe the actions of others.
 Trance powder [Load 0]: A single dose of a powder that puts the target into a calm
and suggestible mental state.
 Cane sword [Load 1]: A narrow blade concealed inside of a walking stick that will
fool a casual inspection.
 Your custom vehicle [Load 0]: The vehicle assigned to you suitable to your
needs. It’s represented by the vehicle entry on your pilot sheet.
74


===== PÁGINA 75 =====

ENVOY SPECIALIST VEHICLE GEAR
 Fine holo-projector [Load 1]: a well made device used to visualize the AR or
specific images.
 Chaff countermeasure [Load 1]: a cloud of metallic strips that can be used to
baffle sensors.
 Concealed melee weapon [Load 1]: a weapon hidden in the vehicle’s frame that
allows it to make melee attacks. Examples are ram bars, tire spikes, spring Loaded
blades.
 Stylish appearance [Load 0]: Decals, spoilers, custom paint jobs, and other
details that make your vehicle stand out.
 Luxurious Passenger Space [Load 1]: The vehicle has a well appointed interior
that has room for a few people.
ENVOY ABILITIES
 Rook's Gambit: Take 2 Stress to roll your best action rating while performing a
different action, so long as you can justify adapting your skill to this use. You can
use pilot actions in place of vehicle actions, and vice versa, with this ability.
 Cool Under Pressure: When you take Harm, heal Stress equal to the level of that
Harm.
 Regent’s Brilliance: You and your entourage have increased Effect when
Consorting and Swaying so long as you take advantage of how truly impressive
you are.
 Like Looking into a Mirror: You can always tell when someone is lying to you.
 A Little Something on the Side: At the end of each Downtime phase, make a
Fortune Roll using the Squad's Tier. Add 1 Tick to a Drive clock if it is 4+.
 Read ‘em And Weep: Spend two Stress to ask one of the following questions
about someone you have observed either in secret or openly. To ask additional
questions you may spend 1 Stress per question. What was their lowest moment?
--- What do they crave forgiveness of and from whom? --- What are their secret
pains? --- In what ways are their mind and soul vulnerable?
 Subterfuge: You may spend your Spark to resist a consequence from suspicion or
persuasion, or to push yourself for subterfuge.
 Trust in Me: You get +1d vs. a target with whom you have a strong relationship.
For another PC this is a +2 or higher Connection value.
75


===== PÁGINA 76 =====

 Veteran: Choose a special ability from another source. Can be taken up to three
times.
EXAMPLE GATHER INFORMATION
 What do they intend to do?
 How can I get them to [X]?
 Are they telling the truth?
 What are they really feeling?
 What do they really care about?
 How can I blend in here?
 What's really going on here?
EXAMPLE STARTING ENVOY BELIEFS
 They're a sucker who will get me into trouble if I don't fix them.
 They’re in need of a makeover and I have the style.
 They don't fit the objective of this squad, so I will find out why they are here.
 They will make a good social prop.
EXAMPLE ENVOY ALLIES AND RIVALS
 Tasneem, a sly courtesan
 Candan, a naive diplomat
 Ismat, a defensive lawyer
 Duri, an idealistic servant
EXAMPLE ENVOY STARTING BUILDS
 Psychologist: Read ‘em And Weep, Study +2, Scan +1, Survey +1
 Idol: Regent’s Brilliance, Maneuver +2, Consort +1, Command +1
 Spy: Subterfuge, Prowl +2, Interface +1, Finesse +1
 Diplomat: Like Looking Into a Mirror: Command +1, Finesse +2, Prowl +1
76


===== PÁGINA 77 =====

INSERT FULL PAGE HACKER ART HERE.
77


===== PÁGINA 78 =====

THE HACKER
A cunning and willful programmer.
Technology fills the lives of the masses and programming computers has become as
important as literacy. However there are those who make that skill into an art, a direct
expression of their will. These people are hackers and they bend augmented reality to suit
their desires. Apps and proxies pose little obstacle to them, with the most skilled being able
to challenge AIs. Bring a Hacker with you if you plan to confront the digital realm and live.
Why did you delve into the guts of the AR? Do you consider yourself a whitehat?
HACKER ACTION RATINGS
+2 Interface, +1 Study
XP TRIGGER
At the end of a session take XP if you addressed a challenge with knowledge or digital
power.
HACKER SPECIALIST PILOT GEAR
 Portable Exclusion Zone [Load 1]: creates an area isolated from AR and wireless
data transfer (including radio).
 Fine Augmented Reality tool [Load 1]: might be contacts, a visor, or glasses;
detail its appearance. Allows you to see the AR even when it hasn’t visually
manifested. Provides some protection from AR Confusion.
 Quantum Drive [Load 1]: a portable QD, about the size of a brick, that can store
an astounding amount of data. Each increases the hackrig’s Load by +1.
 Hackrig [Load 1]: a portable computer with high end intrusion software. Detail if the
hackrig is a tablet (has Load 3), a laptop (has Load 5), or a tower(has Load 6). It
can be filled with Hacker Specialist Vehicle Gear or valuable data (Load 1+).
Changing it’s Load requires spending Materiel like a Vehicle.
 Recursive data projector [Load 1]: Broadcasts overwhelming amounts of data
that Apps and AIs avoid.
 Your custom vehicle [Load 0]: The vehicle assigned to you suitable to your
needs. It’s represented by the vehicle entry on your pilot sheet.
78


===== PÁGINA 79 =====

HACKER SPECIALIST VEHICLE GEAR
 Fine retrieval program [Load 1]: used to find and acquire data.
 Fine coding program [Load 1]: used to edit programs on the fly.
 Electronic Filter [Load 1]: used to bypass signal blocking devices and techniques.
 Stealth program [Load 1]: used to hide hacking attempts.
 Data bomb program [Load 1]: used to shut down systems by overLoading them
with data.
 Fine Intrusion Countermeasures Program (ICP) [Load 1]: used to defend
against hacking attempts.
HACKER ABILITIES
 Compel: You can Interface with the augmented reality to force a nearby app or
proxy to appear and obey a command you give it. You can always distinguish
between reality and AR created by a program you summon or compel (though your
allies may become lost).
 Matrix Mind: You’re always aware of apps and proxies in your presence. Take +1d
when you gather info about the AR and apps.
 Iron Will: You're immune to the AR confusion that some apps and proxies inflict on
sight. Take +1d to resistance rolls with Resolve.
 Turing Test: You can always tell if you’re interacting with a human.
 Data Pack: You can Study an app (or create a new one) to develop it into a
reusable form. You know the complex methods to create apps. You begin with one
app already learned.
 Crowdsource: Spend 2 Stress to use a squadmate’s action rating instead of your
own by describing how you make use of their knowledge.
 Tesla: When you push yourself in addition to the normal benefits you can do one of
the following: unleash a stroke of lightning as a weapon from the power grid—
summon an AR storm in your immediate vicinity (swirling ads, flashing neon, heavy
smog, shouting crowds, etc.) that will cause AR confusion.
 Warded: You may spend your Spark to resist a AR consequence, or to push
yourself when you deal with AR forces.
 Veteran: Choose a special ability from another source. Can be taken up to three
times.
79


===== PÁGINA 80 =====

EXAMPLE GATHER INFORMATION
 What is holographic or inorganic here?
 What lingers in the Augmented Reality?
 What is hidden or lost here?
 What do they intend to do?
 What drives them to do this?
 How can I reveal [X]?
 What's really going on here?
EXAMPLE STARTING HACKER BELIEFS
 The AR echoes tell me they're being followed.
 I've found their digital secrets.
 They're computer illiterate and I'm going to fix that.
 They don’t trust me, and that’s insulting.
EXAMPLE HACKER ALLIES AND RIVALS
 Gather, a curious proxy
 Thusitha, a focused pirate
 Zine, a secretive AI
 Tae-hee, a vile page
EXAMPLE HACKER STARTING BUILDS
 Decker: Turing Test, Survey +2, Consort +1, Command +1
 Wiz Kid: Tesla, Struggle +1, Battle +1, Wreck +1, Destroy +1
 Spider: Warded, Prowl +2, Finesse +1, Survey +1
 Coder: Compel, Engineer +2, Finesse +1, Study +1
80


===== PÁGINA 81 =====

81


===== PÁGINA 82 =====

THE INFILTRATOR
An agile and deadly burglar.
Privacy is a rare commodity in the technologically advanced lives of those touched by the
War. Many keep their secrets locked in physical spaces far from prying eyes. This is when
you need an Infiltrator. Able to get past the security measures of the most paranoid and then
fight their way out if necessary, they'll get you what you want. Make sure you treat them right
because they can get into your home too.
Why are you drawn to the skills of the Infiltrator? When have you regretted moving unseen?
INFILTRATOR ACTION RATINGS
+2 Prowl, +1 Finesse
XP TRIGGER
At the end of a session take XP if you addressed a challenge with stealth or evasion.
INFILTRATOR SPECIALIST PILOT GEAR
 Fine security cracker [Load 0]: A well made tool kit used for disabling mechanical
and electronic locks.
 Fine optical camo [Load 1]: A piece of clothing capable of covering the entire body
that blends the wearer into their surroundings.
 Light climbing gear [Load 1]: Climbing gear made from uncommon lightweight
materials.
 Firearm silencer [Load 0]: an item that attaches to or replaces a gun’s barrel so
that it makes very little sound when fired.
 Nightvision goggles [Load 1]: Advanced goggles amplifying ambient light allowing
the user to see in total darkness.
 Your custom vehicle [Load 0]: The vehicle assigned to you suitable to your
needs. It’s represented by the vehicle entry on your pilot sheet.
INFILTRATOR SPECIALIST VEHICLE GEAR
 Fine optical camo [Load 1]: A coating or cloak that covers the vehicle allowing it to
almost seamlessly blend into its environment.
 Light mobility suite [Load 1]: A grapple system, jump jets, foot wheels, or other
82


===== PÁGINA 83 =====

mobility system modified to be less cumbersome.
 Electronic Countermeasures [Load 1]: creates static that prevents any wireless
transfer of information.
 NV/IR sensors [Load 1]: Scanners that allow the vehicle to see in darkness or to
spot heat sources.
INFILTRATOR ABILITIES
 Ghost: You are not negatively affected by Quality or Tier when you attempt to
bypass security measures.
 Ambush: When you attack from hiding or spring a trap, you get +1d.
 Daredevil: When you roll a desperate action, you get +1d to your roll if you also
take -1d to any resistance rolls (or exhaust an additional Quirk for vehicle
resistance) against consequences from your action.
 The Devil's Footsteps: When you push yourself in addition to the normal benefits
choose one of the following: perform a feat of athletics that verges on the
superhuman—maneuver to confuse your enemies so they mistakenly attack each
other.
 Expertise: Choose one of your action ratings. When you lead a group action using
that action, you can suffer only 1 Stress or exhaust 1 Quirk at most regardless of
the number of failed rolls.
 Never Tell Me The Odds: If you are outnumbered or drastically over matched by a
foe take +1d to resistance rolls or exhaust 1 fewer Quirk for vehicle resistance.
 Reflexes: When there's a question about who acts first, the answer is you (two
pilots with Reflexes act simultaneously).
 Shadow: You may spend your Spark to resist a consequence from detection or
security measures, or to push yourself for a feat of athletics or stealth.
 Veteran: Choose a special ability from another source. Can be taken up to three
times.
EXAMPLE GATHER INFORMATION
 What do they intend to do?
 How can I get them to [X]?
 What should I look out for?
83


===== PÁGINA 84 =====

 What's the best way in?
 Where can I hide here?
 How can I find [X]?
 What's really going on here?
EXAMPLE STARTING INFILTRATOR BELIEFS
 They make way too much noise.
 Got themselves caught so that I could finish the mission. I owe them.
 They aren't going to make it out of the War because they're too reckless.
 I have to keep an eye on them, I know their secret.
EXAMPLE INFILTRATOR ALLIES AND RIVALS
 Decine, an Offworlder clerk
 Astrell, a local programmer
 Gorbad, a dedicated noble
 Asa, a hopeful refugee
EXAMPLE INFILTRATOR STARTING BUILDS
 Assassin: Ambush, Struggle +2, Consort +1, Sway +1
 Operative: Shadow, Interface +2, Study +1, Survey +1
 Thief: Ghost, Finesse +1, Scan +2, Survey +1
 Demon: Reflexes, Maneuver +2, Battle +1, Struggle +1
84


===== PÁGINA 85 =====

85


===== PÁGINA 86 =====

THE OFFICER
A tactical and personable trooper.
Any conflict is chaos, whether it’s an explosion filled battlefield or posturing for status in a
masquerade. Except it’s not really chaos, not if you know how to look. Lines of attack and
defense, routes for flanking and retreat, all exist no matter the arena. There’s a way around,
through, or over if you’re properly prepared. An Officer always has a plan.
What lingering debts do you possess? How will you honour them?
OFFICER ACTION RATINGS
+2 Command, +1 Survey
XP TRIGGER
At the end of a session take XP if you addressed a challenge with calculation or conspiracy.
OFFICER SPECIALIST PILOT GEAR
 Fine cover identity [Load 0]: Paperwork, planted database info, and false
connections suitable for passing as a different person.
 Fine gift [Load 1]: a bottle of liquor, a necklace, or a trinket. Something easily
replaceable but quite impressive.
 “High priority” comm decoder [Load 1]: This device gives you the back channels
for reaching anyone’s personal communicator, but that doesn’t mean they know, or
care, who you are.
 Officer's Uniform [Load 0, unless it’s a secondary outfit then Load 2]: a uniform
befitting one in a position of command.
 Concealed palm pistol [Load 0]: A very small firearm with a very short range that
is easily concealed.
 Your custom vehicle [Load 0]: The vehicle assigned to you suitable to your
needs. It’s represented by the vehicle entry on your pilot sheet.
OFFICER SPECIALIST VEHICLE GEAR
 Fine Battle Standard [Load 1]: a flag or other symbol that your allies can rally to.
 Fine Friend Or Foe Tags [Load 0]: makes a vehicle appear as belonging to a
specific person, squad, and/or Faction.
86


===== PÁGINA 87 =====

 Concealed gun [Load 0]: a small firearm only Effective up close that is almost
impossible to find.
 Small Armory [Load 1]: a collection of infantry weapons and body armour.
OFFICER ABILITIES
 Tactical Genius: Two times per mission you can assist a teammate without paying
Stress. Tell us how you prepared for this.
 Leader: When you Command a Cohort in combat, they continue to fight when they
would otherwise break (they're not taken out when they suffer level 3 Harm). When
you lead a Group Action you have increased effect.
 Rally: Spend two Stress to do one of the following. To compel additional directions
you may spend 1 Stress per direction.: direct an unaffiliated crowd to perform an
action—have an unaffiliated crowd commit violence—prevent an unaffiliated crowd
from causing damage.
 Functioning Vice: When you cut loose, you may adjust the dice outcome by 1 or 2
(up or down). The pilot you cut loose with heals 1 Stress as well which cannot
cause them to overindulge.
 Heart to Heart: When you make the weight of an arrangement clear to your
opposite and both agree to terms - surrender, cease fire, prisoner exchange, etc -
you are all emotionally invested in the deal. If either party or their Squad breaks the
agreement, the negotiator takes level 3 Harm, "Despondent".
 Warlord: When you have Vendetta with another Squad your Squad gets improved
Effect against that Squad.
 Mastermind: You may spend your Spark to protect a teammate, or to push
yourself when you gather information or work on a long-term project.
 Weaving the Web: You gain +1d to Consort when you gather information on a
target for a Mission. You get +1d to the engagement roll for that operation.
 Veteran: Choose a special ability from another source. Can be taken up to three
times.
EXAMPLE GATHER INFORMATION
 What do they want most?
 What should I look out for?
87


===== PÁGINA 88 =====

 Where's the leverage here?
 How can I discover [X]?
 What do they intend to do?
 How can I get them to [X]?
 What's really going on here?
EXAMPLE STARTING OFFICER BELIEFS
 They trust my plans, and I won't let them down.
 They have a good head and I trust their instincts.
 They refuse to see how their actions affect the squad.
 Their reputation precedes them and it worries me.
EXAMPLE OFFICER ALLIES AND RIVALS
 Lavender, a strong fixer
 Henri, a weak cop
 Peaches, a corrupt officer
 Virgil, a loyal pilot
EXAMPLE OFFICER STARTING BUILDS
 Revolutionary: Rally, Command +2, Sway +1, Struggle +1
 Tactician: Tactical Genius, Struggle +2, Battle +2
 Fixer: Heart To Heart, Sway +2, Finesse +1, Command +1
 Strategist: Weaving The Web, Study +1,Survey +2, Scan +1
88


===== PÁGINA 89 =====

89


===== PÁGINA 90 =====

THE SCOUT
A dangerous sniper and explorer.
Despite all the signs and guidebooks the world is filled with hidden paths. People, whether
consciously or by accident, hide things. Sometimes it’s where they’ve gone, or their favourite
bauble, or a route through dangerous places. It’s a Scout’s job to find these secret ways,
then help clear the path from a safe distance.
How did you run into trouble while alone in the field? When does the loneliness of your work
find you?
SCOUT ACTION RATINGS
+2 Hunt, +1 Survey
XP TRIGGER
At the end of a session take XP if you addressed a challenge with tracking or violence.
SCOUT SPECIALIST PILOT GEAR
 Fine machine pistol [Load 1]: A well made pistol capable of fully automatic fire.
 Fine sniper rifle [Load 2]: A high Quality bolt action rifle that’s extremely lethal at
long-range but unsuitable in close quarters.
 1 type of special ammunition [Load 1]: A magazine or bandolier of specialist
ammo that gives increased Effect against one type of target but reduced Effect
against other targets. You might have EMP rounds to use on drones, hollow-points
for people, or gel rounds to be less than lethal.
 Rangefinder/laser painter binoculars [Load 1]: Binoculars that can perfectly
judge the distance to a target and also transmit the target’s precise location.
 A well programmed hunter robot [Load 1]: Your robot obeys your commands and
anticipates your actions. Can carry 2 Load of general pilot gear or Scout pilot gear.
Gain Cohort (expert: hunter).
 Your custom vehicle [Load 0]: The vehicle assigned to you suitable to your
needs. It’s represented by the vehicle entry on your pilot sheet.
90


===== PÁGINA 91 =====

SCOUT SPECIALIST VEHICLE GEAR
 Fine heavy cannon [Load 2]: An excellent, slow firing cannon designed to
bombard targets at long-range.
 Special ammunition [Load 1]: Your vehicle is equipped with a non-standard
ammunition type in addition to its standard round. It gives increased Effect against
one target type but reduced Effect against others. You might have flak rounds to
use against jets, armour piercing rounds for tanks, or incendiary rounds for infantry.
You can change your ammo type the first time it's used each mission.
 Magnification suite [Load 1]: Your vehicle is equipped with a wide variety of
optical and digital zoom options to enhance the pilot’s view of far targets and also
mark them for allies.
 Drone carrier [Load 1]: can be used to launch several simple drones with a preset
Loadout that are directed with the vehicle’s controls. Each drone can carry 2 Load
of general Pilot gear, 2 Load of Scout Pilot Gear, or 1 Load of general Vehicle gear.
All drones must have the same Load, and it doesn’t cost Materiel to change their
Load between missions.
SCOUT ABILITIES
 Sharpshooter: When you push yourself in addition to the normal benefits you can do
one of the following: make a ranged attack at extreme distance beyond what’s
normal for the weapon—unleash a barrage of rapid fire to suppress the enemy—
ricochet a shot to hit a target indirectly.
 Focused: You may spend your Spark to resist a consequence of surprise or mental
Harm (fear, confusion, losing track of someone) or to push yourself for ranged
combat or tracking.
 Terminator: Your well programmed hunter robot has additional systems installed. It
has increased Effect when tracking or fighting machines, and gains a custom
upgrade: Beast of Burden [+1 Load, and it’s stronger], Mind-Link [can be directed
with the pilot’s mind], or Quick and Quiet [is faster and nearly silent]. Take the ability
again for an additional custom upgrade.
 Ranger: When you gather info to locate a target, you get +1 Effect. When you hide in
a prepared Position or use camouflage, you get +1d to rolls to avoid detection.
 Survivor: From hard won experience or specialized training, you are able to subsist
on what any environment provides and you can function on the barest sustenance.
You get +1 Stress box.
 Lay of the Land: When a Pilot takes advantage of terrain you have scouted, they get
+1d to resist consequences (or spends 1 fewer Quirk). When you scout as a
91


===== PÁGINA 92 =====

flashback Set Up action, spend 1 less stress than normal.
 Determination: When you roll a failure on a risky or controlled action you can
choose to make that a partial success by changing the Position to desperate.
This does not grant XP for taking a desperate action.
 Veteran: Choose a special ability from another source. Can be taken up to three
times.
EXAMPLE GATHER INFORMATION
 What do they intend to do?
 How can I get them to [X]?
 What are they really feeling?
 Where are they vulnerable?
 Where did [X] go?
 How can I find [X]?
 What's really going on here?
EXAMPLE STARTING SCOUT BELIEFS
 They would be lost without me.
 They make me feel like part of the team.
 They want to survive and I can teach them how.
 They’re in constant danger, so I’ll keep them safe.
EXAMPLE SCOUT ALLIES AND RIVALS
 Teucer, a veteran sniper
 Layla, a humane tracker
 Here, an eager mortician
 Holly, a cold squire
EXAMPLE SCOUT STARTING BUILDS
 Pursuer: Determination, Study +1, Struggle +1, Consort +1, Wreck +1
 Pathfinder: Ranger, Prowl +2, Survey +1, Maneuver +1
 Sniper: Sharpshooter, Bombard +1, Study +1, Prowl +1, Survey +1
 Bonded: Terminator, Command +2, Struggle +1, Engineer +1
92


===== PÁGINA 93 =====

93


===== PÁGINA 94 =====

THE SOLDIER
A mightily, violent warrior.
The War touches everyone demanding some form of violence be committed on its behalf.
Those who become very good at the most primal form are the Soldiers. While others perform
violence, they ARE violence. They reek of blood, and gunpowder, and dominance. Even
when they don't wound their victims they staple fear onto their bloody, beating hearts.
When do you refuse to employ violence? When do you refuse to refrain from violence? How
have these stances hurt you?
SOLDIER ACTION RATINGS
+2 Struggle, +1 Command
XP TRIGGER
At the end of a session take XP if you addressed a challenge with violence or coercion.
SOLDIER SPECIALIST PILOT GEAR
 Fine melee weapon [Load 1]: A knife, sword, hammer, shield, or other one handed
melee weapon of excellent Quality.
 Fine assault rifle [Load 2]: A well made rifle capable of single, burst, or automatic
fire.
 Anti-armour weapon [Load 2]: A heavy weapon designed to penetrate the kind of
heavy armour found on many vehicles.
 Frag, flash, or smoke grenades (3 uses) [Load 1]: A few grenades that can be
thrown or launched from a suitable firearm which either explode in shrapnel, sound
and light, or smoke.
 Handcuffs or zipties [Load 0]: A tool designed to restrain the limbs.
 Stimpack [Load 0]: An injector filled with a drug cocktail giving a burst of energy,
resilience, and aggression. This will modify your Position and Effect as suitable.
Gain two consequences “Can’t Tell Friend From Foe” and “Destroy Everything”
which can be resisted as normal. The modified Position and Effect, and any
unresisted consequences last until the end of the next scene.
 Your custom vehicle [Load 0]: The vehicle assigned to you suitable to your
94


===== PÁGINA 95 =====

needs. It’s represented by the vehicle entry on your pilot sheet.
SOLDIER SPECIALIST VEHICLE GEAR
 Fine melee weapon [Load 1]: A finely crafted melee weapon that is well balanced
for your vehicle.
 Fine heavy melee weapon [Load 2]: A well made and heavy melee weapon able
to strike with greater reach or force.
 Scary weapon or tool [Load 1]: An unusual weapon or tool that has increased
Effect when used for intimidation but standard Effect for dealing damage.
 A tangle gun [Load 1]: A weapon that launches some kind of round that impedes
or removes the mobility of a struck target.
SOLDIER ABILITIES
 Battleborn: You may spend your Spark to reduce Harm from an attack in combat
or to push yourself during a fight.
 Bodyguard: When you protect someone, take +1d to your resistance roll (or
exhaust 1 fewer Quirk for vehicle resistance). When you gather info to anticipate
possible threats in the current situation, you get +1 Effect.
 Robot Fighter: You know the weak points of the inanimate and you gain increased
Effect in combat against machines.
 Tough as Nails: Penalties from Harm are one level less severe (though level 4
Harm is still fatal).
 Mule: Your pilot Load limits are higher. Light: 5. Normal: 7. Heavy: 8.
 Not to be Trifled With: When you push yourself in addition to the normal benefits
you can do one of the following: perform a feat of physical force that verges on the
superhuman—engage a small gang on equal footing in close combat.
 Brutal: When you unleash physical violence, it's especially frightening. When you
Command a frightened target, take +1d.
 Vigorous: You recover from Harm faster. Permanently fill in one of your healing
clock segments. Take +1d to healing treatment rolls.
 Veteran: Choose a special ability from another source. Can be taken up to three
times.
95